## Why crypto loves bio

**Vitalik:** It's interesting that crypto has had this kind of interesting sister relationship with frontier biotech for pretty much ever since it began. Definitely far from just myself, a lot of early crypto people were also very big into longevity.

**Balaji:** Do you want my thesis on why?

**Vitalik:** Oh, go ahead.

**Balaji:** Well, Hal Finney was an extropian. But I can actually give an exact parallel between crypto and longevity, which is with Bitcoin initially, it looks like the existing financial system in some ways with bar charts and trading and stuff, but it rejects fundamental premises because the existing financial system says that while hyperinflation is bad, deflation is also bad. So you should lose a little bit of your wealth every year, like a little bit of inflation is good, that's normal. The medical system is similar. It says while fast death is bad, trying to live forever, the equivalent of that, increasing your lifespan every year, that's also weird and bad. So you should lose a little bit of your health every year via aging. The traditional financial system says lose a little bit of your wealth every year. Traditional medical system says lose a bit of your health every year. The entire crypto and longevity community says, "What if we reject that? What if we attack it from first principles and say maybe we don't have to go to zero, maybe we can get to infinity instead?"

**Vitalik:** The nice thing about longevity is that I think it's on this really nice trajectory toward being much more mainstream now. Bryan Johnson is a mainstream cultural figure. Non-technical friends of I think many of us know who he is. There's been a huge amount of progress on that. One space that I think is still in an earlier part of the curve is resistance to airborne diseases. We had a dry run of this during COVID, and COVID is worse than existing diseases, but it's also much less bad than it could have been. It was in this weird mid-zone where basically it was not bad enough for us to properly take it seriously, but at the same time, it actually is much worse.

**Balaji:** You know, there's this concept on Twitter sometimes of the "secret third thing." Have you heard that before? Essentially, if you guys don't know this meme, it's like, "Are you a Democrat or a Republican or a secret third thing?" And it presumes that you must be in one of these two categories. Otherwise, it's like a fake thing that there's any more complexity than just zero or one. But obviously, if you look at an image, an image has more than one pixel of information. If you only had zero or one, you would not be able to describe an image. Some things have necessary complexity, more than just zero or one. It can't be reduced profitably to that.

With COVID, for example, one way of sort of crashing the operating system of some people online is they're like, on the one hand, it's this dangerous virus that escaped from a Chinese lab and it's so bad. On the other hand, it was just the flu, bro, and it didn't do anything and why are you so mad? Why did we do anything about it? A lot of people hold both of those beliefs at the same time. They're obviously incompatible with each other. Either it was this fairly serious thing or it was a completely non-issue. I think it was actually fairly serious and it did come out of a Chinese lab.

**Vitalik:** It is fairly serious. Was/is.

**Balaji:** Exactly. It killed literally millions of people, but, and this is the weird thing... see, the thing is in early 2020, if you had said, okay, just warp your way back to January 2020, if you said this is going to kill 10 million people globally and a million Americans, and in a few years, it's not going to be that big a deal... that's literally how people are thinking about it, which is actually kind of... if you had said it's not a big deal or it's going to kill millions of people, those just seem like thesis and antithesis, and somehow we got a synthesis which is totally crazy where it literally killed a million or millions of people and it's also considered, "dude, you're just exaggerating, it's not a big deal." It's kind of like life goes on after World War I. Well, it does for those who didn't die, but, you know, it was actually a pretty big deal at the time.

**Vitalik:** I think one of the important things there is that COVID itself is still an ongoing thing. Actually, I got it quite recently. If it weren't for that, this whole thing would have been happening like a week and a half earlier. But it's still happening, it's still bad. The long-term symptoms are still pretty bad. If you think about just how our civilization's media apparatus is handling it, from a media perspective, COVID basically ended on February 24th, 2022. That just is how our media apparatus works. You can only handle and think about one big story at a time. The reality, of course, is the current thing.

**Balaji:** Exactly. There are multiple current things. COVID was not cured. There were new variants. The efficacy of the vaccines went down to about a quarter.

**Vitalik:** The scarier thing is what could come next. We basically have to get ahead of all of this stuff and we have to massively increase our civilization's bio-defense. I think in the UK, there was a wastewater surveillance program that's very good, and the smart technocrats on both sides will tell you that it's good, but then sometime in 2021-2022, it was just canceled. I think the problem is unless the next pandemic literally photographs like Ebola or something like that, God hopefully it doesn't, there are people who will just literally deny that they've gotten to the point they'll just deny the germ theory of disease. You know, they just don't even believe that... not that a vaccine works, they don't believe any vaccines work, they don't believe drugs work, they don't believe biotech works, they don't believe pharma works. They're totally throwing the baby out with the bathwater.

**Balaji:** I've got two solutions for that, by the way.

**Vitalik:** Sure. Okay. What are your solutions?

**Balaji:** The two solutions, and this is actually true for everything, the two heirs to the American empire are China and the internet. For example, when it comes to biotech, if you look, China actually flipped the US and the rest of the world in science papers, Nature papers, highly cited biotech. They have a functioning replacement for American academia. If you want to know whether a treatment works or not, a Chinese clinic, they will basically be able to tell you about a crazy left or crazy right version of it. So that's one possible solution that's within China.

The other solution is the internet, where I think with DeSci, you can have people who are neither crazy people... like the whole thing in mid-2020 where public health people in the US destroyed their reputations by saying racism is a real pandemic and you need to go out and protest in the middle of a pandemic, and just completely vitiated all their guidance on lockdowns. This made people completely distrust all US public health. Then you had the right then saying that vaccines don't even exist. So both sides are just completely crazy about biotech, they're completely crazy about biology. So the answer is either China or it's the internet. You have DeSci, decentralized science, diagnostics, self-experimentation, Bryan Johnsonian, where you're measuring your own body and taking responsibility for your own health. You've got the air quality metrics, you've got the personal sequencing, you've got all of this, you've got your own dashboard. Then you're working with a community of people of like mind to get to scale where you can aggregate that data. You can start calculating, okay, are my numbers out of sync, are they in sync, or what have you. Those are the two approaches I think to rebuild biotech and just assume the solution is outside America.

**Vitalik:** What's interesting on some of this bio stuff is how a lot of the solutions are surprisingly low-tech. We know this lamp here, this is a UV lamp, 222-nanometer light. If it's under 300 nanometers, that means it's fine for your eyes and so on, so it doesn't hurt you the same way as sunlight ultraviolet does. What it does is it kills the viruses. It just passively, significantly reduces the chance that people in the room are going to infect each other with any airborne pathogen. This is one type of technology. Another type of technology is air filtering. A third type of technology is just better ventilation. There's really basic things that can be done, and the big bottlenecks are a lot of the time just people getting off their butts and doing things. To me, this is also part of the value of some of these startup societies, that you can actually take things that the smart people know are obviously correct and then you can just go and do them. Because a lot of the time for mainstream adoption of these kinds of things, the bottleneck is not about the technology. The bottleneck is, from a politician's point of view, is this something where they have to go do something untested, or is it a copy-paste job?

**Balaji:** This is very, very important because basically startup societies are deployment points for exactly the obvious, cool, high-tech stuff that we can now deploy at a 100 or a 1,000 unit scale because it's something where people have opted in to basically pushing the frontier of tech. Of course, you can... not everybody has to opt into a DNA test, not everybody has to opt into an air monitor, but the kind of people here are going to be more interested in that kind of stuff because it's the frontier of health, frontier tech. So, why don't we take some questions actually?

**Vitalik:** Yeah, you're on the slide if you want to pull it off.

**Balaji:** All right, great. So, why didn't you build Ethereum anonymously like Satoshi? If you could go back, would you do that?

## Why didn’t Vitalik build Ethereum anon?

**Vitalik:** I think it would have been too hard. The problem is that by the time Ethereum started, I was already a Bitcoin Magazine author for two years. One, I just put way too many words on the internet. I would have been findable. Two is, I think Ethereum's beginning, my ability to get any kind of critical mass, definitely bootstrapped a lot off of people already knowing and trusting me from Bitcoin Magazine. It would have just been a way harder job.

**Balaji:** A non-obvious point is pseudonymity is itself a form of decentralization. The reason it is is because your government name is in a government database, so it's a centralized name. It's linked to all the information about you. You punch it into a search engine, it pulls up everything on John Smith. Whereas Satoshi Nakamoto is a decentralized name, it's outside of that. So in a sense, pseudonymity is itself a form of decentralization. They couldn't hit either the man or the ball of the network. But once Bitcoin was out there, it was like a heat shield for you. It's like the NASCAR or Indy 500, you can kind of slipstream behind a car. You didn't have to use exactly the same tactics.

Similarly, with network state, personal distribution was important. The way that we're doing decentralization is lots of startup societies. So it's not just like Vitalikville or Balajiberg or whatever. I want many of you guys to set up your own startup societies. We'll fund those. There's many different visions of the good. That's decentralization in another form rather than pseudonymity.

**Vitalik:** What's interesting to me about the whole zero-knowledge proof thing in particular is that it opens up the entire design space. If you remember 15 years ago, the whole narrative is basically a dichotomy between sort of trusted institutionally because KYC'd versus "on the internet, nobody knows you're a dog." The challenge now, of course, is that if you don't prove you're not a dog, then you're also not proving that you're not a bot. So there's no reason for people to listen to you. But what the zero-knowledge proofs give you is they give you the ability to have privacy but at the same time have reputation. That also means is you actually have an incentive to say and do things that are constructive because they increase your reputation, and that's reputation that you have and can use in a future context despite the fact that all this reputation is being mediated through ZK. So actually, every operation is unlinked from every other operation.

**Balaji:** I think zero knowledge is definitely underrated. If you're early in your career, there's some things... I think ZK, biotech, things like that haven't had their massive breakout moment yet, and ZK was definitely one. Okay, here's another one. This is, you'll like this one.

## 1000X public goods

**Balaji:** What are a list of some thousand-to-one or 10,000-to-one return public goods that we could or should have but don't?

**Vitalik:** I think one of the things is just more kind of standard form packages for things. If you want to start a startup society, then here's open-source software that you can start with. Here's the one, two, three, four, five guide of what kinds of things you should do if you want to do something... like me, thought-through templates. Exactly. Thought-through templates for pretty much everything is a big one.

Also, on the education side, the biggest underprovided thing that I've identified, and a lot of my writing has been about trying to compensate for since the beginning... like you've probably seen a lot of this with math. On the one hand, you have papers that are technically accurate, but they're just so insanely complex and everything's in freaking Greek and nobody can understand it except for people that have had in-person conversations with the original authors. On the other side, you have pop-sci stuff that just doesn't even try to be accurate. They tell you things about how Schrödinger's cat means that the cat can be dead and alive at the same time. That sentence gives you absolutely no intuition whatsoever about what is the point of quantum, but it makes you feel smart because you know the password. There's an entire space that's in the middle there that actually tries to give you the intuition and helps you understand things, but in a way that's actually understandable to people. In general, if you're creating educational resources, to me that's a huge unclaimed space of opportunities to provide value that repeats itself for pretty much everything that's emerging.

**Balaji:** I think we want to do a lot of that at Network School. So, here's a good one. Approximately 99% of stablecoin market cap is backed by dollars. This reinforces USD. Seven of 10 large BTC owners are US entities.

## Stablecoins are backed by dollars. So doesn't the US win if crypto wins?

**Balaji:** How does the US not win if crypto wins? You can give an answer and I'll give mine.

**Vitalik:** First of all, all of these things are chaotic systems that just have a huge number of all kinds of different variables going in all kinds of different directions. Five years ago, China was the winner of mining, and then the government itself finally banned mining hard enough that... I think actually China still does about 10% of Bitcoin's hash power, but it's basically knocked out of the number one position. So all kinds of things could happen. There's even all kinds of things that the US could do with respect to crypto. Obviously, there's all kinds of things that even the individual crypto holders in the US could end up doing. That's one.

Two, macroeconomics can just go in all kinds of different directions. We're basically breaking an 80-year era of stability in about three different ways at the same time.

**Balaji:** What do you look at as those three different ways?

**Vitalik:** The tech of AI and so on. I mean, basically domestic politics, international politics, and AI. Even AI itself, you can expand that to thinking in terms of technology exiting the great stagnation in general. I think we've been seeing bio exiting the great stagnation, we've been seeing virtual reality exit the great stagnation. A lot of these things also really feed into each other.

Basically, there's just a lot... the internet is also a big one. The internet has just changed a lot of variables in terms of what kinds of things in our world have an economic premium and what kinds of things don't. So what dominates can just change massively over the next five years in directions that pretty much nobody has been predicting is one part of my answer. The other part of my answer is once you're on crypto rails, your ability to go from one thing to another thing just becomes a hundred times easier.

**Balaji:** Okay, great. That leads directly to my answer to this question. I'm going to start doing video tweets, meaning 59-second, 29-second vertical videos. One of them will be on the DeFi matrix. The DeFi matrix is if you imagine the table of every asset across every asset. You have fiat currencies, you have cryptocurrencies, you have NFTs, you have domain names, ENS domain names, and so on and so forth. All of them now, due to Uniswap and due to all of these on-chain market makers and exchanges, have a price. You can get out of this asset into that asset, and you can do it right now, and you can do it for the whole thing. You can market sell. I mean, you may not want to do that, but you can do that.

The moment that you loaded the dollar on-chain, you made it swappable in a million different venues any time of day and night by anybody in any country at some price. It's like putting something onto an ice skating rink, and it can move in any direction with very little friction very, very quickly at the speed of crypto, which is the speed of the internet. It's not banking hours, which are 9 to 5. It's not capital controls. It's not within the control of the US banking system in the same way. It's at the speed of the internet. That alone is a huge change. Sometimes something is forklifted into a new domain, and the forklift itself, everybody's focusing on it for a while, but it's now in a new domain, and the physics are totally different. The internet is totally different.

The DeFi matrix, because it means you can swap in and out of something... what's another term people use for cash? They call it liquidity. Getting liquid, an IPO, right? That's how a tech bro says, "I'm making money." Liquidity can now actually happen without actual cash because you have an asset that you can just swap into whatever asset you want with a click. There'll be some price for that, but you can keep it all in Bitcoin, you can keep it in something else.

That's number one. That means, by the way, here's a very important thing. You know what was similar to the DeFi matrix? An analogy is in the early 2000s. There were all these newspapers, okay? And they forklifted themselves online. There was just the online version of the New York Times and the Miami Herald and the San Francisco Chronicle. They just forklifted themselves. They're like, "Okay, I'm online. What's a big deal? I'm online, I'm offline." But once they were all online, Google News could make a table of all of them. Suddenly, when you loaded Google News, you saw they were all reprinting the same story, the same Reuters clip, and they didn't have unique stories. There were 73 outlets reprinting the same Reuters clip. Suddenly, everybody realized, "Oh, wait a second. These guys just have a thin layer of local news on top of basically wire services." That began essentially the commoditization of local news, and local news basically died because you could just get your news on the internet. The forklifting revealed that these were commodities, and their previous moats that they didn't even realize were moats were the geography because they had trucks that delivered the newspapers. They had ink. That whole saying of "never argue with a man who buys ink by the barrel," it'sactually now, you can always defeat a man who still buys ink by the barrel. They can't argue with you. You don't have to buy ink by the barrel.

The point being that what they didn't realize is that by forklifting it online, they lost their moat, and then they were put into total global competition with everybody else, and then all the local newspapers died and only the strong survived, and the craziest, most international news or whatever dominated. That is what's going to happen to every fiat currency. Every fiat currency is now in a war for its survival comparable to local news because their only advantage was their geography. They're basically all doing the same thing as everything else. It's only the geography that provides any advantage for a fiat currency.

What that means is they're now going to have to... if you think about what happened with local news or with news, it couldn't compete on geography. Instead, it competed on ideology. You have all of these online different niches and verticals that are global but competing on ideology as opposed to location. Okay. So, that's what's going to happen with assets, already happening. They're going from competing on geography, like this fiat and that fiat, to competing on ideology and on features, which are like zero-knowledge or smart contracts or the unprintability of Bitcoin. That's already happening, and you're having tribes form around them. What hasn't happened is for many fiats to die. Many fiats are going to die. This is my view. When many fiats die, lots of things break because it's a tool for social control and so on. Bitcoin will moon more than you can imagine it can moon. Be in a safe country at that time.

The other point is, so that's how, basically, with the stablecoin market cap... it doesn't reinforce USD exactly, it just makes it very liquid and it can swap into anything else, and you could easily have some other asset that you swap into. In terms of seven of the 10 largest holders being American, well, the issue is that the US is not a United States, it's a disunited state. Everybody's just taking a chair and using it against the next guy. The red team says the blue team did it, which they did, and the blue team says the red guys just did it, which they did. Even Delaware is being destroyed. It's like a civil war where every institution in the US is getting wrecked. The internet survives because the internet is what stays up even in the time of nuclear war. The only reboot is from the internet. That's not the US winning. That is the internet surviving after all these institutions get melted down, which is a very different thing. Fundamentally, the fundamental optical illusion that you want to wrestle with is, is the internet American? It's like saying, "Is America British?" On the one hand, of course, America is British. It was born out of Britain, speaks English, the early colonists, the names of towns, George Washington, all that kind of stuff. On the other hand, it's clearly something that's become much more than Britain. It's exceeded even its worthy progenitor.

Okay. So, I want to do two more and then we'll wrap. This is a good one.

## How does Ethereum become great again?

**Balaji:** How can we make Ethereum great again?

**Vitalik:** Massive tariffs on all Uniswap trades out of Ethereum.

**Balaji:** Okay, fine. No. How can we make Ethereum great again? What should Ethereum's North Star goal be? Number of DAOs, price, total holders, etc.?

**Vitalik:** I think Ethereum in general needs to have twin goals. Basically, one is getting used and getting used at a large scale. The other is, of course, continuing to be something that's worth being used in the sense of being something that's meaningfully much more secure, much more decentralized, and so on than the kinds of systems that people would be using otherwise. Obviously, if we sacrifice on either of those things, there's no point. Because if Ethereum can't scale and it can't provide enough security and it can't provide enough experience, then whatever properties it happens to have don't reach anyone. On the other hand, if Ethereum gets scaling and UX at the cost of basically becoming a copy of TradFi, then there's also either no point or at least much less of a point than there could have been.

**Balaji:** Can I argue that? My argument is sometimes you can have something that's cyclical in the XY plane, but the progress is on the Z-axis. So even if you rebuild... for example, there was Microsoft and then there was Google and then there was Facebook. Even though they're like "new guy, same as old guy," they're not exactly the same. There's actually progress technically, like React is better than Angular, for example.

**Vitalik:** Yeah. Okay, that is fair. But I mean, I think there is a strong technical roadmap that gets us both of those things. The technical roadmap is... basically there's a bunch of strategies to scale both L1 and L2 execution. There's stuff like delayed block execution, block-level access lists, distributed history storage, stuff that... I think there's a pretty good Bankless podcast with Ethereum Research about some of these kinds of things about a week ago. On the L1 side, and then on the L2 side, of course, increasing the number of blobs and using PeerDAS to be able to handle that, and then finally using ZKs, and I guess realistically, STARKs inside of the L1 for scaling. So just actually applying all of that technology.

I think there are things that we have to kind of rethink on a fundamental level and update some of the ideals from the early Satoshi era. Probably the biggest thing is that the thing that Satoshi did not understand that well is the asymmetry between creation and verification. It's ironic because in proof-of-work, he actually totally did. But if you think about every other aspect of Bitcoin, a block takes as much computation to create, not the proof-of-work part, but the part of choosing the contents, as it does for someone else to verify. The cost that it takes, the amount of computation, bandwidth, storage that it takes to run a verifier is exactly the same as what it takes to actually choose the contents of the block in the first place. That was an inherent limitation of the pre-ZK era, the pre-stateless client era, the pre-access list era, basically the era before all of these different scaling concepts have come up.

The way that all of these scaling concepts work is they basically say, well, they put more load on one node and they ask the one node to do more work in order to create hints that then make the work of verifying much, much easier for everyone else. Take advantage of that asymmetry. That is what stateless clients are about, it's what ZK-STARKs are about, it's what data availability sampling is about. Basically, all of the fancy buzzword technologies are ultimately some version of this. The challenge is, early Bitcoin mentality really valued this concept of running a node at home. The good aspect of this is what you want is you want a system where the rules of the system are rules where if those rules start getting broken, the blocks that break the rules just automatically get rejected by everyone immediately. Swift does not give you that property. Credit cards do not give you that property. If I have a US dollar balance, I have no way to verify that these were dollars created with an algorithm that obeys any particular limit on how many dollars are in existence. You do not want a system where five people can get together, they can change the rules, and then everyone else accepts them by default. You want a system where changing the rules is actually hard. This is like constitutionalism but a level above that because we're going into smart contracts and doing it at the level of tech.

To do that, the Bitcoin way was to say, well, you'll have everyone re-executing everything at home. But with SNARKs, you have the difference between nodes that are responsible for building the chain and nodes that are responsible for verifying the chain, and then you have a whole spectrum in the middle. The question is, well, actually, if you allow the cost of building parts of the chain to be a little bit higher, then you can massively increase the scale. You can increase the number of users who actually get to benefit from your chain's guarantees directly. This is one of those things, mistakes that El Salvador made. The Lightning Network implementation, it was actually based on custodial wallets.

**Balaji:** On that, I'll say something.

**Vitalik:** Basically, the question is how do you avoid that? The solution is you basically have this kind of hub-like model where you have a smaller number of more powerful nodes and you're concentrating the proving work, and at the same time, you're massively distributing the verifying work. Basically, the challenge is if we can actually do this, then we can create something that is sort of maximum decentralization and maximum scale at the same time. The technology exists to actually do that.

**Balaji:** It's funny because that is like 10 years after Bitcoin, it would only have come up after people had pushed on that part of the trajectory. One thing is, I do think Bitcoin scalability, it's not Lightning, I'm very skeptical on some, but it actually already exists, which is it's either an infrequent on-chain transaction or it's an off-chain transaction to something like Coinbase or Binance or El Salvador or whatever that just runs essentially off-chain transactions between its people. So you have infrequent digital gold movements between these hubs and then you have all these spokes on these hubs, and that's basically how Bitcoin scales.

**Vitalik:** My critique of that kind of stuff is basically that if the open, permissionless, censorship-resistant aspects of the ecosystem are not aspects that can be experienced by users directly, and we just say those things belong to institutions, then that's just something that's inherently more vulnerable to capture.

**Balaji:** Okay, last question, then let's wrap.

## Is SF losing its position as the center for tech?

**Balaji:** Some say Silicon Valley/SF is losing its supreme position as the center of tech founders. Do you agree? Yes, no? And if so, where do you think is the best place to start a global startup?

**Vitalik:** I think it depends on your industry. If you're in AI, then spending a lot of time there is very helpful. My personal philosophy toward that whole region is like there's a lot of value you can get by being part of it, but if you go visit for two to three weeks a year, then you get the majority of the benefit and at the same time, that's still a low enough dose that you can avoid imbibing the crazy.

I think a lot of parts of the world are great places to be based in. Places like Berlin, I'm always a big fan of Berlin because I think the local community does a great job of remembering what crypto is actually there for, and basically not just chasing the short-term narratives. There's a huge amount of top-tier talent. Even Safe, the smart contract wallet people are there. Huge numbers of Ethereum core developers are there. So there's a lot of different parts of the world that are like this. Especially with a combination of the internet and with a combination of more localized, in-person network effect hubs like this, the need to be in a global superstar city to be at the front of the world is much less than it was five years ago.

**Balaji:** I agree with that. All right, with that, let's wrap. Thanks, everybody.

**Vitalik:** Thank you.
