# BANKLESS: Ethereum's Next Decade | Vitalik Buterin (part 2)

## Cypherpunk vs Mainstream

**Bankless Hosts:** So, I think you're signaling that you at least would like to hold firm in crypto and Ethereum on privacy. And this goes back to a broader culture question I want to ask about Ethereum. It's been my observation over the last 10 years that some of the cypherpunk things that we've tried have worked, but not in their idealized version, if that makes sense.

Right now, we're at a moment in Ethereum's history where we are actually onboarding the world. Mainstream is coming. Robin Hood doing a Layer 2, JPMorgan talking about doing stuff on-chain, and Coinbase getting larger and larger... they're all coming to Ethereum. So there's a question here about when you get some of that traditional finance and mainstreaming who don't have cypherpunk values. You were talking about Ethereum pluralism. So we let more people into Ethereum with this pluralistic idea, but they're less cypherpunk. They care less about the values that maybe we care about.

And so there's a question of where do we draw the line? I think about something like stablecoins. My idealized version of a stablecoin would probably be something like Rai. Do you remember that project? It was all ETH, completely decentralized, all crypto-native. Guess what? That didn't work. There wasn't product-market fit. And what has worked? Circle, Tether, these other less-idealized cypherpunk stablecoins. But they are helping people. Go to emerging countries, and this is exactly what they use. I guess the question is broad: when should we hold fast on cypherpunk, Ethereum-type values, and when should we adapt to the world around us and really prioritize product-market fit and actual usage?

**Vitalik:** Yeah, I think there's a couple of places that are really the most key in terms of prioritizing privacy and cypherpunk values. One is, of course, the low-level protocol. Because you can build a centralized or decentralized application on top of a decentralized backend, but you can only build a centralized application on top of a centralized backend.

Similarly, there are places where if the blockchain is fundamentally not at least friendly to privacy and friendly to intermediary-free ways of accessing it, then that just does not create space for the privacy-friendly things to happen on top of it.

One of the examples is the reason why I've been continuing to work on account abstraction and continuing to improve EIP-7702. Basically, because I think if we do not do that, then any smart wallet use cases, or any multi-sigs, quantum-resistant things, and also privacy protocols, will only be able to function through an intermediary ecosystem. The thing with intermediary ecosystems is that they work until they don't work for you.

So, there does need to be some constituency that's really watching out for these kinds of things and just making sure, is it at least possible to interact with Ethereum in a way that is privacy-preserving? Also, for example, in a way where you're not depending on a centralized intermediary to do your basic things. If any servers that you talk to disappear, that does not lead to any of your funds getting stuck. Especially at the lower levels, these are things that need to be really watched out for.

And then I think the second aspect of this is that the strong, privacy-focused, and I would say intermediary-minimization-focused way of doing Ethereum needs to at least be possible. And part of that is the protocol layer. To me, it's fine if the majority of people do not take that option. But what we do not want to see is a world where the infrastructure to do that does not exist. And we do not want to see a world where the top-level protocols like ERCs and standards are in some structural way hostile to it.

Maybe one analogy to this is email. I think email is actually a really great analogy to mine. Theoretically, email is an open protocol. Anyone can make an email server. You can go get a VPS, you can get a DNS account, and you can set up `ryananddavid.com` and then give yourselves `ryan@ryananddavid.com` and `david@ryananddavid.com`. If you want, you could even write all the software yourselves, and LLMs make that actually way more practical for you guys than you might have ever imagined.

But at the same time, the problem you run into is, okay, you've got your own dinky little email server, but then by default, all the big providers blacklist it. And they're blacklisting it because of spam. And so de facto, email ends up relying on being much more of a centralized and permissioned thing than it could have been.

And so then there's a question of, well, what things could have been done with email to try to preserve its openness better? We want to ask the equivalent of that type of question, but for any particular standard that comes up. For standards for moving tokens from one Layer 2 to another Layer 2, for intent-based standards... one of the things they've been making sure is that for some of these intent-based approaches, to make sure there is a way to do it without talking to a server. And it is totally doable.

The challenge is that if you don't think about it, then all the standards end up kind of assuming at the lower level that there are servers that you talk to, and then you just get privacy leaks. And so I think having people in the right places that are just watching for these kinds of things, and that just make sure that privacy-friendly, intermediary-minimized, more self-sovereign ways of doing things actually exist and don't have at least a needless performance penalty to them, is important.

And if not everyone takes that option, then fine. If a bunch of people continue to hold their coins inside of Coinbase, then fine. If a bunch of people continue to use MetaMask that directly, fully trusts Infura without any protection, and they decide not to add any of the protection based on either Helios or some of the private RPC stuff that we're starting to do, then fine. But the place to start is just the option existing, and the social norm that protocols and standards that get built have to take into account the need to be at least accommodating of people who take that option.

**Bankless Hosts:** Yeah. Great news for David and I too is `ryananddavid.com` is available right now. So we could just go spin up a VPS and send email now.

**Vitalik:** Yeah, I wonder if any agents have already registered `davidandryan.com`.

**Bankless Hosts:** Good question. I want to get into some more narrow topics about Ethereum in more recent times, but in order to get there, I kind of want to ask one last zoomed-out question to really frame the stakes of some of those incoming questions.

And so I want to present the future. There are particular versions of the future that we know are coming our way. We know AI is going to define the future, and we can talk about the different ways that that looks. There are also geopolitical tensions that seem like they're on the horizon. There's seemingly an increased balkanization of the world. There are just possible versions of the future out there that are kind of scary. And you know, there are other possible things to talk about that are also kind of cool, like gene editing and all that kind of stuff. The future is coming. What role, Vitalik, do you think Ethereum has to play in the future that we know is coming our way?

**Vitalik:** By the way, I'm glad that we're on the same page that gene editing is the exciting thing and AI is the scary thing. There are plenty of people that have that flipped, and I think the version that you described is the correct one.

But yeah, what role can Ethereum play? I think to me the answer has always been in two parts. One, the fundamental product I think that Ethereum offers is protecting people's freedom and self-sovereignty and ability to organize in a way that does not depend on any kind of mask for any individual person or company or nation-state.

I think in a world that is more balkanized at the physical layer, that's a very valuable thing and that's an increasingly rare thing. If you turn back the clock 15 years ago to Facebook... I think basically there were a lot of people who were willing to give Facebook the level of trust that today we pretty much all agree is a level of trust that is only really deserved to be given to something that's like a blockchain.

And so 15 years ago, in that sense, the market was not ready. The whole idea that trust issues are something that you have to worry about was not really there. It was famously the era of "privacy is over." I remember there were a lot of people... you know Mark Zuckerberg's real name policy famously more than I do... I personally remember hearing people basically saying "privacy is over" at cloud computing conferences. And then of course, fast forward 10 years, and then even those guys are starting to talk about things like TEEs now.

So I think in that sense, the market for trust technologies is something that's ready. And I mean market in a very expansive and metaphorical way. There are people who are willing to pay money for these things, and then also there are people who have social problems that they care about who are willing to embrace these kinds of technologies as a part of the solution. And I think that exists to a much greater extent than it existed 10 years ago. So I think that's part of it, which is just building the technology that actually is able to do those things.

And the second part is, I think there is an unavoidable aspect of this which is global community building. Basically, that Ethereum is this powerful intellectual attractor for people who care about decentralized finance, for people who care about new forms of creating organizations, for people who care about things like prediction markets, increasingly for people who care about privacy, for people who care about making democratic modes of organizing actually work in a technologically advanced society. There are a lot of these different topics that Ethereum ends up being adjacent to, where I think the community itself is a valuable good, even in a hypothetical world where let's say tomorrow we discovered that P=NP and we all had to pack up our bags and go home in terms of blockchains because cryptography can't exist anymore. So, I think that's also something that's really valuable to continue building on.

## World Ledger

**Bankless Hosts:** In the early days, there was this meme of Ethereum as a "world computer" that has kind of ebbed and flowed as a meme that's worked.

**Vitalik:** Uh, in your May post earlier this year, you called Ethereum a "world ledger," which I think resonates with me and feels less abstract, a bit more concrete. Maybe to some folks it won't, but to me it sort of implies, okay, it's a world ledger that I can use to register things like property, for instance. And another thing I keep coming back to is, what is Ethereum? It's a decentralized property rights system. I get for many normies that's still a bit too abstract, but to what extent do you think that encapsulates what we're trying to do here: Ethereum as a world ledger?

**Vitalik:** Yeah, I think to me the really valuable thing about Ethereum as a world ledger is... the problem with the "world computer" is that a computer is an inherently super expansive concept. Computers do everything for you. Computers generate your cat pictures now. They used to look at your cat pictures. They can convert your cat pictures into videos. They can translate the thing that the cat is holding up on its sign into German and then do a video-to-video for that. Okay, I have lots of cats and AI examples clearly, but the point is they can do lots of things for you. They can categorize your life.

But basically, they do lots of things that are just obviously totally inappropriate for, especially, the Ethereum L1. And so the nice thing about "ledger" as a word is that it feels like it encompasses the subset of a computer that's really highly economically valuable. And I think, obviously the word "ledger" has these very financial connotations, and so it's also very clear to see what it implies in the context of DeFi. But then it's also, I think, very easy to see the metaphor for what the equivalent of a ledger is for something like ENS.

And then the nice thing about that term is that then it starts to... I think the thing that I specifically said is that the Ethereum L1 is the world ledger. And so I think it also at the same time tries to make the relationship between L1 and L2 more clear, which I think is one of my explicit goals. And I think to the extent that people picked up on the phrase, it's definitely been successful at those things.

**Bankless Hosts:** If Ethereum is the world ledger, what does that make ETH?

**Vitalik:** Okay, great. Now we have to figure out what is the ledger equivalent of gasoline. I mean, I guess it's ink. Okay, fine. Ink is a Layer 2. But if ink has the ™ symbol beside it, it's the Layer 2. Without the ™ symbol, then it's like... yes.

**Bankless Hosts:** Works for me. I want to zoom into some of the conversations that were ongoing in the Ethereum community in 2024. I'll just define 2024 as hard times for Ethereum, mostly just due to the decline of the relative ETH price, and it kind of created a bunch of infighting and what to do about that fact in the Ethereum community. Did you think Ethereum had a rough 2024? Is that what you felt?

**Vitalik:** I definitely think so.

**Bankless Hosts:** How do you account for that? How do you explain the story of Ethereum in 2024?

**Vitalik:** Yeah, I mean I think the low ETH price was definitely one of those very big aspects that led to a lot of things. I think a big part of it for a lot of people was also that some storylines were ending without other clear storylines replacing them. In the sense that I think there were definitely people who became kind of quietly disillusioned with DAOs, but it wasn't clear, if you're the sort of person who likes DAOs but then suddenly DAOs don't work, then what else do you do?

Then NFTs were also kind of dying down in 2024. Meme coins were definitely on the rise in 2024, but then at the same time, I think Ethereum people, just by nature, want to make a serious difference in making the world a more free and open place. And it's kind of harder to see how meme coins contribute to that. And also, of course, the largest meme coins were all happening on Solana.

I mean, there were a lot of these... I think another big part of it was the whole Layer 1 versus Layer 2 thing and how, post-... and people sometimes pin it on 4844. I'm not sure to what extent that's actually true. Not 4844, but actually, yes, 4844 and having an independent fee market for blobs. And basically, the question of, well, are L1 and L2 actually cooperative? And then once there's a realization that there are these more misaligned incentives, that naturally leads to infighting more.

So I think it's a combination of all of those factors. It was a moment where the price was falling, and at the same time, it felt like a lot of storylines were kind of meeting their natural end, and it wasn't quite yet clear what is the new thing that would actually come and replace them, where that new thing has to be something that both is a money-maker and that the Ethereum community could get behind intellectually. I mean, I actually think in 2025, we're actually starting to see answers to some of those questions. So I think that's one of the reasons for the positivity that we're seeing now.

## Changes in the Ethereum Foundation

**Bankless Hosts:** Yeah. I mean, there's still debate in Ethereum today about how much of the story of 2024 was just narrative-driven versus actual real problems that needed to be fixed. One of the big stories was that the Ethereum rollup-centric roadmap just became not what we thought it would be. The fragmentation between chains was pretty bad. Every Layer 2 feels like a brand new chain. And in contrast to that, the Layer 1 wasn't really trying to scale. It just kind of felt like there was this story out there that the Ethereum roadmap just felt incoherent to what its endgame was supposed to be, which is this global, unified world computer.

And then, downstream of that, there were changes made at the Ethereum Foundation. Or perhaps not downstream of that, maybe that's part of the story. Maybe you could actually fill us in on the parts of the EF that many people aren't able to see. Why were there changes made at the EF? What needed to change, and where is the EF today?

**Vitalik:** I think this is one of those cases where there were a lot of things that were coming for a long time, but you just needed any kind of trigger to make them actually happen. So the change in leadership was one of those examples. And I think Aya has actually been feeling happier in her current President of the Board role, and she continues to be active in some projects around adoption in Bhutan, which was always one of her interests. And there are some other things on the financial inclusion side that she has been spending more time on.

The Executive Director job is definitely not something that any one person should be in forever, and she lasted longer than basically everyone else at the EF combined. And then there are also new voices that have new emphases. I think Tom and Shlom are both very strong technically in their own different ways. At the same time, there's been a lot of new people who are leading different parts of the foundation and different initiatives.

So, one part was organizing the effort around scaling and UX. Now, one of the things that I'm focusing on is also better organizing the censorship resistance and privacy side of things. Basically, there are a lot of things that are happening in terms of making PSE a more focused team that's moving from being about privacy and scaling exploration to about bringing privacy ideas into production. So there are a lot of interesting new initiatives that have started.

And I think these are things that would have happened at some time anyway, but sometimes these kinds of extreme moments serve as triggers and often kind of accelerate and bring forward things that are coming and make them all happen at one time.

On the L1 versus L2 thing, I mean, I think the interesting thing there is how that's a relatively disconnected topic from the EF. Obviously, the work that's being done to increase the L1 gas limit is very much an EF topic. But then also the other big thread that we've been working on is improving interoperability between L2s. That's actually an initiative that started all the way back in mid-2024.

And I think that's a good example of how there are a lot of things that happened that weren't just all caused by everything that happened at the beginning of 2025. They were happening already but then got accelerated quite a bit. And there's continuing to be good work happening in terms of the L2 interop stuff. A lot more L2s have become Stage 1.

I think the next priority after Stage 1 is going to be... I actually think higher priority than Stage 2 is getting to one-hour withdrawal times. Or actually, it doesn't even have to be one hour. There's no reason it can't be one minute or 12 seconds. The fundamental limitation is just how much gas you're willing to pay. The reason why is because if withdrawal times take an hour, or if withdrawal times take a week, then it's just too capital-inefficient to use native depositing and withdrawing for a lot of applications. And so, trustless and L1-based ways of issuing assets are just not going to win in the long term.

What is going to win is basically all kinds of custom mint-and-burn bridges that end up concentrating power and control in a multisig. The thing that we need is for the L1-based approaches to actually be viable. But for that to happen, you have to bring that one-hour time down, or that one-week time down. Because with that one-week time, if you want to move assets from one chain to another, you don't want to make people lock up their coins for a week, or even pay someone else to lock up their coins for a week. Even the capital cost of that is too high.

But if, instead of one week, you say an hour, then suddenly the liquidity for intent-based bridging becomes very cheap, potentially free for a lot of cases. And then, of course, if it goes all the way down to 12 seconds, then potentially you could see a world where withdrawing and depositing through L1 just becomes the natural way for a lot of people to move their assets between L2s.

But these things, they require a lot of movement from a lot of different actors in the ecosystem. They benefit from the L2s themselves. They benefit from work being done by people like Succinct, the whole ZK-EVM effort, you know, Risk Zero, all of the other different ZK providers. So, it's one of these big things where there are just a lot of these moving parts in the ecosystem, and it just has to come together and really turn into a concrete solution. So, I'm definitely more optimistic now that we're on a good path to getting all of those issues resolved and, you know, both having a strong L1 and having L2s with a much clearer relationship with the L1. But it'll still take time to finish all the different technological steps, but in general, I think we're in a good place.

## Economic Alignment

**Bankless Hosts:** Here's a take, Vitalik. Dave and I have discussed the 2024 Ethereum malaise a little bit, right? All this concept of L2s being parasitic and what should be done. It is true that I think David and I, and most people in Ethereum, feel much better about the current state of the Ethereum roadmap with some of the new leadership at the EF and also some emphasis on scaling the L1, and in particular a strong L1.

But I wonder about the rollup roadmap. There are, of course, a lot of things that have worked spectacularly about it. You know, Base deploying a rollup, Robin Hood more recently, more trad-fi... incredible adoption on that side. But sometimes I wonder and have been concerned with the fact that we have emphasized the different stages of property rights, basically user property rights on Ethereum Layer 2s. And we've made some progress in getting to Stage 1, and I think we will get to Stage 2. That's going well. We've had less emphasis on the economic alignment, if you will, and the coordination across these Layer 2s.

There are some things tactically that can be fixed fairly easily, I feel like, with UX and standards where you can get assets from one chain to another. I'm not so much worried about that. What I am worried about is a lack of economic coordination between all of these actors.

And so if you get into a state... I remember your 2021 "Endgame" post, which goes through conceptually a state where you have Ethereum that's decentralized at Layer 1, and then you have maybe a world where you have one big rollup that has all the execution state inside of it. And you still make the argument, hey, that's still fine because you can have big block production that could be centralized, but we'd still validate and verify things coming to the chain, and that could be an okay state, maybe not ideal.

What I worry about in that scenario is, what happens if we get Layer 2s that become so much stronger than Ethereum Layer 1 that they essentially get to dictate the rules? They could break away from Ethereum at some point in time. That just doesn't seem like a good economic balance. And this is what it felt like with different chains and their own brands. They just didn't feel as "Ethereum" as Ethereum Layer 1 did back in the day. So, what do you think about this economic alignment piece? Do you think we can get that right? Is that still off?

**Vitalik:** Yeah, I agree with that. And I think you can look at the economic alignment issue from two different angles. One of those angles is basically, "Hey, L2s are not paying enough fees, and we should have a higher minimum base fee, and if we just set the minimum blob fee all the way up to one gwei, then it would make a lot of things better." And I think that's good. But then a lot of the time, I'm also not sure if fees are even the right primary variable to be focused on.

I think the right primary variable is more network effects. And maybe this is a place where I should explain the reasoning behind this focus on one-hour withdrawal time a bit better. Because to me, what you say is exactly what motivates my goal of focusing on that.

The thing that is likely to lead to L2s de facto spinning away is basically if all of the assets are issued on L2s, and then people move them through mint-and-burn bridges, and then the L1 is not actually involved at all. The thing that keeps the L1 relevant is when assets, even if most of the activity happens on L2s, are issued on the L1.

And the reason why I think that's important is, basically, it's much better from a trustless perspective because all of these L2s still have governance, they still have upgrade issues, and so on. So if you have the asset issued on the L2, then basically no matter where you move it, you have to trust that L2. But on the other hand, if the asset is issued on L1, then you can actually natively use the withdrawal functionality, and the L1 actually is this kind of ultimate decider. So it makes the security model clear.

And it also makes things much more permissionless because activity can more freely migrate from one L2 to another. It becomes more viable to have applications that just natively do things across different L2s. And then also, of course, any kind of technology that becomes developed for doing DeFi operations synchronously between L1 and L2 will just naturally be much more able to work with all of those assets.

So I think encouraging assets to actually be issued on L1 and making it economically viable to do that, and then just using the standard deposit and withdraw rails for that... that to me actually is one of these really important pieces in terms of keeping the L1 central. And so I think we should do that. And I think, personally, also, again, increasing the minimum blob base fee all the way up to something like one gwei is good. And we should do both of those things.

Continuing to figure out some of these synchronous composability blocks, like, can you make it possible for L2s to have blocks that synchronously do things between an L2 and L1? I also think that's good. We definitely do need to keep pushing forward on these things. And I think we do need to keep pushing that vision that the point of an L2 is something that gains value from interacting with the L1 and from being able to offload a lot of things to the L1, instead of an L2 just being a chain that happens to have a bridge somewhere.

