# BANKLESS: Ethereum's Next Decade | Vitalik Buterin (part 3)

## Scaling the L1

**Bankless Hosts:** So, Dave and I very much operate on the layer zero, which is the social layer. And one conclusion we've come to is that in order to speak softly but carry a big stick and increase Ethereum's Layer 1 soft power, you have to have a scaled-out L1 that scales maybe from a transactions-per-second perspective, but is also the home for DeFi, the home for liquidity, and a subset of that is for the minting of assets. The stronger the L1, the more that you have the ability to kind of corral the Layer 2s, essentially. You give them the carrot, which is, you get the liquidity of Ethereum. That's why you're attached to this.

And that's why we're excited about... I don't know if you'd use the 'P' word, pivot. There's been some debate about the semantics of this, but we're excited about the initiative to scale the L1. We're also, by the way, excited... we think that a higher-value ETH is essential in that conversation because ETH is a store-of-value asset, and the larger ETH gets in terms of price, the more kind of liquidity and command you have over the L2s if they decide to get a bit rowdy. Anyway, can you comment on the "scale the L1" path? So, it's always been in the roadmap somewhere, maybe when ZK technology evolves, to scale the L1. So from that extent, it's not a pivot, but there has been some recent reprioritization, it seems like. And it does seem, with the new EF leadership, that's like number one: scale the L1, scale L2 blob space as well, but scale the L1 is a here-and-now thing. What's the case for scaling the L1 from your perspective?

**Vitalik:** Yeah, I think the big question is always, how do you scale the L1 safely? And safely means not breaking the network, not completely centralizing node operation, not breaking the staking ecosystem. And I think we actually have technologies to do that that did not exist years ago.

The big one, of course, is ZK-EVMs. And ZK-EVMs are almost production-ready this year in a way that was totally not true, I think, even one year ago. And so that's one thing that a lot of us are leaning in on explicitly. There's willingness to explicitly say, "We're going to increase the block gas limit by 3x to 5x, and if that ends up eliminating the bottom 10% of solo stakers, we're not telling the bottom 10% of solo stakers to go screw themselves. Instead, what we're saying is, 'Well, the bottom 10% of solo stakers can use the ZK-EVM approach to validate the chain instead of re-executing everything manually.'" And that's actually safe.

Because 10% of the network relying on ZK-EVMs... while the technology is at this medium level of maturity, it's actually fine as long as it stays under a third. And so, the ZK is at this level of maturity where you can actually start strategically relying on it partially in various ways. You can think of it as the equivalent of the L1 itself going into Stage 1, in a certain sense. And then at some point, once the security of the technology goes up more, then the L1 goes to the equivalent of Stage 2, and then you can start relying on the majority of the network using this kind of stuff.

So that's one part, but ZK is definitely not the only technology for this. The two other examples are history storage. A big problem has been that nodes take up a lot of space, and now we've recently finally implemented the most basic form of history expiry, which expires history from before the merge. And so basically, every Ethereum node has shaved a few hundred gigabytes off of its storage requirements.

The plan is to keep on going further, like eventually get to expiring after one fork, and then I think the long-term target should be expiring after 36 days. And for that to work well, you need to have some kind of peer-to-peer, torrent network-type of distributed storage so that we make sure that the chain actually does become fully accessible and fully verifiable, so that the chain doesn't disappear. We definitely do not want to become like Ripple, where there were weird things that happened because, I think, the first 35,000 blocks disappeared and they were just not able to find them ever.

And so, the distributed history ideas from Portal, those are actually making their way into production. That's another example. Gas repricing is another example. Block-level access lists, I think, are another one of those really powerful examples because what block access lists let you do is, they basically say every node except for the node that creates the original block can execute the block with maximum parallelization. It doesn't freaking matter if it's EVM versus UTXO versus Solana, whatever.

The block has to execute sequentially, but it can generate hints, and the hints are basically intermediate states after every transaction. And then if you have those hints, then you become able to verify and re-execute the block by running every single transaction fully in parallel. And you can even parallelize between the execution and the I/O. So you can have the I/O itself be much more efficient if it's massively parallelized, and then that goes in some threads, and then in other threads, you basically parallelize, you break up the block into different transactions, and then you have a massive level of parallelizability that's completely independent of what the underlying virtual machine model is.

And so that also is a thing that makes it safer to run Ethereum at much higher gas throughput levels. So, basically, there are a lot of these technologies that just did not exist, and now they do exist. They've been really refined and really optimized quite a bit. And because of that, we have a lot more options than we did before to really get the best of both worlds.

**Bankless Hosts:** Do you think with this combination of technologies, we can keep the, quote-unquote, same level of decentralization that Ethereum has while doing what Donkrad proposed, which is, like, aim for a social commitment of 3x per year in terms of scalability? I don't know, Ethereum right now is, after the recent block size increase, at maybe 20 transactions per second. 3x per year is what Donkrad says. And then Justin Drake thinks a longer-term resting point, maybe a 5-year time frame, something like that, is a giga-gas on Ethereum Layer 1, so 10,000 transactions per second. Do you think that those targets are realistic here?

**Vitalik:** Uh, I mean, I definitely become kind of less sure of the higher end of some of those. Although, actually, I think my skepticism is probably more on ultra-short slot times than it is on ultra-high TPS. Actually, if I had to choose one between 1-second slots and 10,000 TPS, in terms of which one is safer for Ethereum, I think 10,000 TPS with 12-second slots is far safer than 1-second slots with the current level of TPS. Because at those levels, we just run into speed of light, very fundamental decentralization type of stuff.

So I personally believe in caution at the higher ends, but I definitely think there's a lot of headroom to optimize, and I definitely think we're going much further than the current 45 million level.

And then in terms of keeping decentralization, I mean, I think we're going to be at this interesting place that's hard to judge, where actually, I'm hoping that in a lot of important ways, decentralization is actually going to increase. And I can give an example of what I mean by this.

So one of the things that I think everyone kind of quietly complains about is the fact that basically no one is actually running nodes, and everyone is trusting RPCs. And I think now, actually for the first time in a while, I feel confident that we have a very solid roadmap to not needing to do that anymore.

One part of this is, of course, Helios, and being able to have a light client inside of a wallet, and the efficiency of that continues to improve. But then another big reason why the cypherpunk types tend to value personal full node operation—and this is something that I actually did not even realize until I personally spent more time going out and talking to some of them—is the ability to run a personal node for the sake of privacy.

Because imagine if you're someone who is using these Ethereum privacy protocols, and you are using many accounts to do many different things, and you really care about your privacy not getting compromised. But then you're still pinging Infura about every single one of the addresses that you're calling `getBalance` on, and so it still knows all of your links to everything.

Now, running your own node is this incredibly powerful way of not having that problem. Because if you run your own node, then you actually are just downloading the whole chain, and nobody knows what your reads are because your reads are entirely local.

So the question is, well, how do we get the best of both worlds? And the answer is that we actually will be able to, and quite soon. There are two different tracks for achieving this.

So track one is, can we start from the current concept of an Ethereum node and can we make it much more efficient? Here's how you make it much more efficient: one, you do aggressive history expiry. You do aggressive expiry and not storing of everything. In fact, you don't even need to store the branches of the state tree. All you need to store is the table that just is the state. That table is 80 gigabytes.

And if you have block-level access lists and if you have zero-knowledge proofs like ZK-EVMs to verify that the block-level access list is correct, then you're able to stay up-to-date on the current Ethereum state doing basically no local compute and only maintaining an 80-gigabyte database locally. 80 gigabytes is tiny. 80 gigabytes is the size of like three or four different LLMs. Like, locally running LLMs, everybody has 80 gigabytes. Even my phone has 80 gigabytes. So, 80 gigabytes of storage, very low compute, still medium bandwidth, but that's fine.

And then if we decide to scale L1 by, let's be medium-conservative, let's say we're scaling L1 by 30x, then obviously 80 gigs is going to turn into 2.4 terabytes. Then 2.4 terabytes is still... it goes back to being a lot. Actually, it goes back to being basically the amount that you need to run a full node today, or basically pre-history expiry. So actually, we've effectively given ourselves that 30x of headroom already.

But if you want to go further, there's this concept of a partial state node. Partial state nodes basically say, well, you just store all of the state except the junk. And there's a lot of junk. And there's a lot of complexity lying there in terms of your definition of what the junk is. But really, if you just say, "store state that's relevant to the top 100 applications and store all EOAs and all smart contract wallets," that's already going to be a massive shrinkage.

So that's one direction. The other direction is to say, "Well, let's start from a browser wallet and let's add guarantees to it." So, part one is Helios and light clients; you can verify the chain. Part two is you can use technologies like, in the short term, TEEs with SGX; in the longer term, PIR, which has cryptographic-level trust properties where you can make requests to a server without the server knowing what you requested. And the server gives you a response, but the server has no idea what it just responded with.

And so if you make that kind of thing the standard, then you're actually able to have this kind of strong privacy guarantee. You're basically able to have a light client where the light client is not just giving you the security property of a full node, it's also giving you the privacy property of a full node without actually needing to have a full node.

So basically, we have a couple of different paths from which we're actually able to give people decentralization properties that they did not have even back in 2017, like even back in the days before L1 started significantly scaling at all. And so I think on a lot of dimensions, we get more scale and more decentralization and more privacy, more censorship resistance at the same time.

There are places where I'm worried. I think continuing to make sure Proof of Stake stays decentralized and block building stays decentralized is one of those points where I think we need to watch out for. And I think having many different high-quality research teams that have different focuses and approaches is going to be really valuable there. But no, on average, I think we have a very good track for increasing decentralization and scale at the same time, and we have to just take it.

## Ethereum's Barbell Strategy

**Bankless Hosts:** I was listening to you on a recent Epicenter podcast, and there was a quote that stuck out to me that I want to get you to double-tap on. The quote was, "If Ethereum gets sucked into directly playing the HFT game, the high-frequency trading game, as a Layer 1, then to me that will just fundamentally destroy Ethereum's soul, because getting into the HFT game does destroy your soul."

I didn't quite follow that conclusion. I'm wondering, why does playing the HFT game as a Layer 1 destroy your soul? What do you mean by that? And how is Ethereum's Layer 1 scaling strategy different from that?

**Vitalik:** Yeah. So I think the core principle here is basically that if you optimize for one thing very aggressively, then the end state of that is that you end up anti-optimizing for everything else to a potentially infinite extent. It's actually the exact same argument that you hear from people like Eliezer Yudkowsky about AI safety. It's just a general principle of optimization.

And the thing with very low-latency HFT-type finance is that there's always a lower latency that you can go to. And the further you go into lower and lower latency, the more that increases the incentives for ecosystem actors to go in that direction. And there isn't really a natural stopping point. And it's a very easy route for just progressively giving up on more and more global decentralization.

And so at some point, you get to things like... I can make some of this concrete with numbers. So, for example, let's take a 1-second slot time. If you try to analyze what that means, first of all, to have a slot time of 1 second, you have to break that up into two parts: there is block propagation, and then there's attestation. And then each one of those has to take 1x network latency. 1x network latency is 500 milliseconds. An average ping time from one part of the world to another part of the world is somewhere in the low hundreds of milliseconds.

And so, even being able to do that at all is a challenge that requires some pretty aggressive peer-to-peer optimization. You cannot have any redundancy in there. You have to have very direct broadcast.

And what this ends up leading to is... the challenge is, the bar that we have to meet is not the bar of capability of participation. The bar we have to meet is the bar of not having strong incentives to co-locate. Right? So it's not about non-co-location being possible, it's about non-co-location being at worst only a little bit less viable than co-location.

And then if you co-locate with a proposer, then effectively instead of having 200-millisecond latency, you have zero latency. And that's a really huge boost. And so if we go into that direction, then the co-location incentives end up being everywhere. Because if you're a DeFi participant, then you'd want to be able to send your transactions in, knowing all the latest information as much as possible. Then if you're a builder, then every 5 milliseconds of latency that you remove gives you an ability to send out your block 1% further into a slot. And so potentially, that even gets you... I'm not sure the exact mathematical details but like close to 1% more revenue right and so you know we see what HFT systems are like in reality right and they're like basically a bunch of collocations
of servers like everyone tries very hard to get very close to each other. And so there's this type of activity where... I actually think this is Ethereum's barbell strategy. Ethereum's barbell strategy of L1 and L2 was basically that L2s do the thing that requires centralization, and they actually get the benefits of centralization, which includes the ability to do HFT. But at the same time, they benefit from L1 providing security and censorship resistance, and then they give L1 the benefit of contributing to this shared pool of activity, but also sort of quarantining the L1 in terms of concentrating... making sure that some of these co-location incentives end up not affecting the L1 directly.

Because L2s are independently sequenced. So actually, this is also one of the reasons why recently I have pivoted somewhat to being less enthusiastic about based L2s and more enthusiastic about L2s that just say, "Hey, we're a sequencer, and we're going to get the benefits of that." And you could do lots of things in that configuration. You can even say you can have decentralized governance for kicking out the sequencer. And that might actually be a very good approach.

And so I think L2s do a good job of absorbing some of that demand. And if you fast-forward even further, we can talk about the AI economy. So, AIs think a thousand times faster than we do. And so if an AI thinks a thousand times faster than a human, then from the AI's perspective, the subjective speed of light is only 300 kilometers a second. So subjectively, it takes an entire second for light to get from one city to a neighboring city.

And so, from the AI's perspective, once you have an entire economy of AIs, which we're definitely going to get quite soon, then effectively the concept of a global financial ledger doing everything actually stops making any sense. At that point, you actually need city ledgers. And what is the right structure for city ledgers to be part of the Ethereum economy? I think L2s are just a very natural answer here.

And so I think if the L1 starts going in this direction, then a lot of centralization incentives end up piling up. And also if we commit to being competitive, then we commit to being competitive in the HFT game, where everyone else is very aggressively optimizing while caring about decentralization much less than we do.

And so I think this is why the barbell strategy is the right approach. Where basically, L1 does need to improve, and I think L1 does need to have pretty good low latency from a human perspective. I think Bitcoin with 10-minute block times definitely gets it wrong. And if Bitcoin had, say, a 20-second block time instead of a 10-minute block time, I could see that significantly making this whole trend of "Michael Saylor-style self-custody doesn't matter" happen quite a bit less. I mean, it's only one of the 10 factors, but it's still important.

And so, having somewhat lower times is good. But I do think that this sort of market separation, where if you want kind of decently low latency, then you do L1, but if you want aggressively low latency, then L2 is the place to be, and we actually do the work of figuring out how to make that synergistic, is likely to be better for us.

## Ethereum Nationalism

**Bankless Hosts:** I hear in your answer something that I hear pretty frequently, which is downstream of probably what is your most-cited blog post between me and Ryan on this podcast, which is the "Concave vs. Convex Dispositions" blog post. And what I'm hearing is, for example, Bitcoin, which is a convex ecosystem, they're a maximalist ecosystem. They focus on the 21 million hard cap, and the Bitcoin ecosystem and culture downstream of that is all centered around the 21 million hard cap.

And you can look at Solana and make that same comparison. Solana is centered around the "IBRL" meme, the reduced-latency, high-frequency trading focus. That's what Solana focuses on. And Ethereum tends to be more concave. It tries to keep all possible doors open. It tries to be more balanced, and it tries to be just a little bit middle-of-the-road.

But Vitalik, there's also that line out there that I also kind of like, which is, "Everything in moderation, including moderation." And if we follow that meme, that logic, that means that Ethereum should be balanced about many things, but some things it should not be balanced about. Some things it should be convex about. And like Ryan, my partner here, he's actually trying to beat his chest as an Ethereum person and become an "Ethereum nationalist" and promote Ethereum nationalism and kind of Ethereum pride about the things that Ethereum stands for. If you were to have your definition of Ethereum nationalism, what would it be? What should Ethereum culture and Ethereum values be convex about?

**Vitalik:** Hmm, no, it was interesting because I started thinking about an answer, but then you kind of pivoted into this Ethereum-as-a-nation discussion, which is sort of fascinating in its own way. But I think maybe we'll start with the answer I was planning, which is that I think one of the other really important points here is that the world is more complex than choosing one point on a slider. And Ethereum benefits a lot from having a multi-layer structure.

Because if you have a multi-layer structure, then often you're actually able to get the best of both worlds. I mean, I can give a nation-state analogy here. Because recently, famously, there have been quite a lot of people arguing that it might be better to have nations that are run by dictators. You have Curtis Yarvin saying America should have a king. This is a common viewpoint that lots of people have. And they say things like, "Oh, you know, dictators can kind of... they don't need to negotiate with people, they don't have political costs, they can just do all kinds of things very efficiently, and they can direct big projects that make society better at scale."

Now, one of... there are lots of reasons why I'm not pro-dictator, obviously, and there are big downsides of dictators that I think more than outweigh the benefits. But what's interesting is that the benefits of dictators are real. But I think democratic capitalism, you can think of it as actually being a way of putting dictators in a box and getting their benefits without suffering their costs at the same time.

What is a dictator in a box? It's an entrepreneur. You have these big titans like Jensen Huang and the various AI people and whoever else, and they command significant amounts of resources. And then they, as that layer of the stack, their goal is to kind of move around these large quantities of resources and these large objects and to try to produce outcomes. And I mean, they do have to negotiate with people, but definitely much, much less than if you tried to allocate the same amount democratically.

But at the same time, you have this other layer of the social stack that's supposed to be much more democratic, that's supposed to decide on these systems of rules and incentives where, if Jensen Huang makes the world better, then he's able to get a lot more money and he is able to play the next round of the game with even more resources. Or if Jensen Huang makes the world worse, then in the lower case, he makes less money, or in the maximally low case, he goes to jail.

And basically, I mean, of course, I know this is something that has to be maintained carefully. And if you get into a world where the entrepreneurs sort of escape the box and then they start effectively writing their own incentives, then that whole model breaks, and then effectively you risk getting the downsides of the Curtis Yarvin world without the upsides.

But I think there is an analogy here to... I mean, L1s and L2s are one of those examples. Even on the application layer, there are a lot of examples. And the analogy here is basically that a lot of the time, these things are much more centralized than Ethereum. A lot of the time, these things make UX tradeoffs that are much more, you might say, "normie-favoring" than the Ethereum one. A lot of the time, they care less about various cypherpunk values than Ethereum. But at the same time, if built correctly, you can have structures on the L1 whose job it is to hold them to account.

So one example, the most basic example, is the proof system. Because the proof system prevents the L2 from claiming that something false is true, and it prevents the L2 from stealing people's money. Another example is the bypass channel. This is the mechanism where if the L2 starts censoring you, then you as a user can send your transaction, and your transaction is just forced to be included in a block, and then you're able to get your assets out. And we actually saw interesting examples of these bypass channels actually being used in real life.

And another example is this idea that I briefly mentioned, where if you have a centralized sequencer, you could have a gadget on-chain for switching the sequencer. If people vote that, "Hey, we have off-chain evidence that this sequencer is abusive in some extractive MEV-running sense, or they're not responsive enough, or whatever," then people can vote, and that vote needs to be censorship-resistant, obviously, so it happens on L1, and so you replace the sequencer.

And so this gets into the discussion of what I think Ethereum's strength is: that we are this ecosystem that has different actors. And so I think we as Ethereum have to figure out, what is this right set of incentives? And I mean, as you guys said, I think a strong L1 that's actually able to run all of this machinery is a really important part of these incentives. Because if you don't have a strong L1, then effectively you're letting the entrepreneur out of the box. You end up with, for example, a proof system that works in theory, but then you start doing the fine print and you realize there isn't enough space on the L1 for everyone to exit at the same time, and so the whole thing is kind of a lie.

And so, you know, a strong L1 is part of this. And basically, part of its role is to create these boxes and then actually make things on the full spectrum of different types of centralization tradeoffs, like rapid, low-latency UX trade-offs and all of those things, actually accessible to users. So that's kind of what I think Ethereum's answer to the question of where the slider should be. To me, Ethereum is this sandbox where it's supposed to let people build on as many positions on the slider as possible at the same time. And I think that's one of its most valuable traits. And yeah, I feel like I've taken the nation analogy in probably a totally different direction from what you guys expected.

## ETH Treasuries

**Bankless Hosts:** Not at all. I mean, we could continue expanding. We love talking nation analogy for Ethereum. But to one area maybe we could extend that is ETH, the asset. So all nations have their own currencies, and some have world reserve assets. And so, the social layer, let's call it, in Ethereum, and part of Ethereum nationalism and the way that I use it, is using ETH, the asset, as a shelling point.

And so let's talk about a few concepts here. One question I have off the bat, though, is what do you make of these ETH treasury companies that are springing up? So, we just had Tom Lee on the podcast. He says he wants to go acquire 5% of all ETH supply. All right. So, you have a hard time doing that without bidding the price up. What do you make of these vehicles? Are you... do you think they're good? Do you think they're bad? Are you somewhat indifferent to them?

**Vitalik:** Yeah. So I think on the first question, the value of ETH... I mean, ETH is the biggest thing that everyone in the Ethereum ecosystem is economically aligned on. And so I think maintaining a strong role for ETH is important just for that reason. If we had a world where the incentives of Base and the incentives of Bankless and the incentives of the EF went off in three different directions with zero overlap, Ethereum would break as a community. And so, yeah, I think that kind of core, that economic core that ETH creates, is something that is really important.

And I mean, I also have many different theories of where the value of ETH could come from. There are many days when I realize that it's actually hard to outperform the theory that the price of ETH is set by a cabal of 14 demons who live on the moons of Jupiter. And basically, everything that we're doing is just a competitive game of who best gives the demons on the moons of Jupiter the best show. But it's like, even from that perspective, actually, making Ethereum a more relevant and more central ecosystem to global applications and finance is still the right thing to do.

So, you know, there are transaction fees, there are network effect arguments, and I think the best things that we do are things that are kind of supportive of ETH from all of those perspectives.

The treasury company... this kind of puzzles me sometimes. Because to me, I think of this as... I mean, first of all, they're not operating with their own money. They're primarily... the point is that people buy into the treasury companies, and the treasury companies use this in order to buy ETH. And so they're effectively creating this kind of interesting leveraged financial product on top of ETH that's somewhere in between an option and a derivative. And you know, there's clearly a lot of people who buy it and who value this kind of thing.

**Bankless Hosts:** Which one's your favorite? [Laughter]

**Vitalik:** You don't have to answer. Who's my favorite ETH treasury company? I mean, I guess the US government that keeps confiscating from hackers is kind of cool.

**Bankless Hosts:** Let me maybe make the case for ETH treasury companies. And this is a case of moderation. Okay, so there's obviously a world where ETH treasury companies go too far. There's too much, and it's custody, and it's not bankless. A case for them acting as a shelling point coordination mechanism for the asset itself and propagating that story into the mainstream, in some ways to a lesser extent, but in some ways the way Bitcoin has done that successfully... now, it can always go too far, overleveraged, more in custody than you want. But it feels to me like entering 2025 versus now, ETH is healthier, and Ethereum is healthier with a strong ETH. When you have some of that activity and there's some representation of it in traditional finance, you get some of those capital inflows. What do we get from that? More economic security and more economic bandwidth to go create the cypherpunk things we actually want. So at some level, in some moderation... we had 0%, now we're at like 1% of ETH supply. This seems to have a good effect. That would be my case for why ETH treasuries equals good.

**Vitalik:** Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I agree. And I think the social aspect of coordinating around ETH just being an asset that companies can have as part of their treasury is good and valuable. And having different vehicles for people to have access to ETH, which is I think one of the reasons why people are buying into treasury companies instead of just HODLing ETH directly, is also good. Giving people more options is good. There are always people in all kinds of different financial circumstances that put all kinds of requirements or incentives or properties on what formats of things that they participate in.

And so no, I think there are definitely valuable services that are being provided there. And yeah, if you woke me up three years from now and told me that treasuries led to the downfall of ETH, then of course my guess for why would basically be that somehow they turned into an overleveraged game, and then at some point, a 30% drop turned into forced liquidations that turned into a 50% drop, and then a 70% and 90% drop, and then that got compounded with a loss of credibility.

But I mean, I think the people in Ethereum in general, even including the people doing finance in Ethereum, are responsible people. You know, these are not Do Kwon followers that we're talking about. And so I think as long as leverage doesn't go too high and these things don't start getting into those kinds of mechanics... I mean, derivatives of ETH existing are a fundamentally fine and stable thing. So, you know, good for them.

## The Next 10 Years for Ethereum

**Bankless Hosts:** Zooming back out, you know, some one of these ETH treasury companies, maybe two, will definitely be around in 10 years. I think that's kind of why people are excited, is that these treasury companies can stand the test of time if they do things right. But I want to zoom back out and just talk about the next 10 years of Ethereum. So, when Ethereum is 20 years old, and we hope to bring you back on the podcast at that time...

**David:** We're going to be old, David.

**Bankless Hosts:** But that's fine. Ethereum will be young. Ethereum will be nearly 20 years old. What, Vitalik... because Ethereum is an ongoing project. The job's never really done. I think the job can become more done, but I don't think it'll ever be 100% done. So, what are your hopes and dreams and goals for Ethereum to accomplish over the next 10 years? If the job's not done, what do you want done in the next 10 years for Ethereum?

**Vitalik:** Yeah, I think one is the technical roadmap basically being at at least some kind of... you could call it a finish line, you could call it maintenance mode. So to me, this includes one, ZK-SNARKing everything. Two, replacing any component that's not optimized with a component that is optimized. So, you know, replacing Keccak with Poseidon or something better, replacing EVM with RISC-V or something better, at the very least as an option. Making all verification happen through ZK-SNARKs, or I guess it would have to be STARKs. Making every node ultra-light. Making privacy a default part of the experience, starting with payments and increasingly getting into more sophisticated forms of DeFi.

Also, some form of self-custody that is both self-sovereignty-friendly and friendly to normal users. I think it actually can be done, and I hope that we get there. Formal verification on everything. I mean, it would be lovely if we could have a formally verified, secure, open-source chain all the way down from the top levels of the stack like dApps, and then you get into the Ethereum clients, and then you get even lower down to the operating system and then ultimately to the hardware. I think that would be really cool.

In terms of impact on the world, I think finance happening on Ethereum by default would be amazing. I mean, if we actually get to a world where the financial infrastructure is such that if a user wants to, they actually can kind of open up developer mode and take their assets out of one application and then start to use other applications instead, be able to permissionlessly go and connect different things, make sure that people have strong options for preserving privacy. Being able to take their funds out of one wallet and move them into a different wallet and all of these things... I think that's all really important.

In general, a future of computing where a trustless vision of security that is based on cryptography and verification of code is a societal default, and us getting to the era where we are using things where we have a strong assurance that they are secure, and the era of "trust me" for security starts looking as archaic as the era of not cleaning our water looks to us today... I think that would be amazing. We've already gotten there with HTTPS. I think we need to get there with everything else. And I think Ethereum can be a huge part of making that happen.

## The Next 10 Years for Vitalik

**Bankless Hosts:** Vitalik, you wrote the white paper in 2013. You were still a teenager at the time. And so now, maybe a personal question as we wrap this up. It has since grown over the last 10 years into a network that hosts almost $1 trillion in assets. And it does seem like increasingly the entire world is building upon this world ledger. But over the next 10 years, what do you see as your role for Ethereum? Are you sticking around? Are you going to finish this vision? What does this look like for you?

**Vitalik:** Yeah, I think continuing to do everything that's needed in Ethereum is definitely a big part of it. I think over the last few years, I have been, and I expect I will continue to be, involved in some of these broader d/acc efforts. So, you know, we've talked about bio-defense. I think security at some of the lower layers of the stack that we've talked about is also going to be important as well. So basically, making this kind of full-stack, open, secure, and trustworthy world actually become a reality in ways that include Ethereum and also include a lot of other things, I expect, will be a big part of my focus over the next 10 years as well. I mean, I think it's basically the same goal that I've had all the way since, you know, even joining Bitcoin back in 2011. And I'm just excited that we can make it happen.