# CoinDesk 80 Index Methodology 
_January 2025_

## Introduction

### Index Objective
The CoinDesk 80 Index (“CoinDesk 80,” or “The Index”) measures the performance of 80 top digital assets not included in the CoinDesk 20 Index (“CoinDesk 20”). CoinDesk 80 constituents are selected based on size, exchange listing, and liquidity requirements and rankings as described in this document. CoinDesk 80 is weighted by market capitalization, subject to a 5% cap on all constituents.

### Additional Details
CoinDesk 80 and CoinDesk 20 have similar but distinct parameters for constitution and calculation, reflecting their respective liquidity requirements and implementation profiles (i.e., target use cases). Nonetheless, their exclusive constituent membership, aligned reconstitution process, and commonly derived reference price methodologies allows them to be integrated in trading, benchmarking, and research applications. Please refer to the CoinDesk 20 Index Methodology for more information.

This methodology was created and is owned by CoinDesk Indices (“CDI”) to achieve the Index Objective stated above. The Index is administered, calculated and maintained by CDI's affiliate, CC Data Limited ("CCData"), an FCA regulated benchmark administrator. References to CDI in this methodology shall be deemed to include CCData.

There may be circumstances or market events which require CDI, in its sole discretion, to deviate from these rules to ensure each Index continues to meet its Objective. This document should be read in conjunction with the CoinDesk Digital Asset Indices Policy Methodology.

### Table 1: Index Details
| Index Name | Symbol | Target Count | Launch Date | Base Value | Base Date |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| CoinDesk 80 Index | CD80 | 80 | Dec 12, 2024 | 1000.00 | Oct 4, 2022 |

## Eligibility Criteria

### Index Universe Eligibility

To be included in the Index Universe, a digital asset must meet the following criteria as of the Reconstitution Reference Date:

1. The digital asset must be among the largest 250 digital assets by market capitalization, excluding stablecoins.
2. The digital asset must be able to support an applicable Reference Rate, as defined below.
3. The digital asset must not be a wrapped, pegged, or staked asset or a gas token.

The Index Committee reserves the right to relax the eligibility criteria if an insufficient number of digital assets qualify.

## Index Construction

### Constituent Selection
Constituents are selected from the Index Universe using the following steps:
1. Remove CoinDesk 20 constituents from the Index Universe¹.
2. Remove digital assets which do not have sufficient trading volume on a minimum of three Top-Tier exchanges, as designated in the applicable Reference Rates, excluding “Excluded Exchanges” as defined in the Policy Methodology. Sufficient trading volume, evaluated at the trading pair level, means that the digital asset has traded in each of the 30 days leading to and including the Reconstitution Reference Date.
3. Rank all digital assets in the Index Universe by 90-day median daily value traded (MDVT) in descending order for the 90 days leading to and including the Reconstitution Reference Date. Daily volume is sourced from Top-Tier exchanges, as described in the previous step, removing “Excluded Exchanges,” as defined in the Policy Methodology.
4. Select digital assets which rank in the top 100 among non-constituents or among the top 120 current constituents.
5. Rank the results by market capitalization in descending order.
6. Select the top 60 from the previous step.
7. From the remaining digital assets, select current constituents ranked by market capitalization within the top 100 until 80 digital assets are selected.
8. If the previous step results in fewer than 80 digital assets, select the highest ranked non-constituents from the remaining digital assets not selected in the previous step until 80 digital assets are selected.

### Constituent Weighting
Constituents are weighted by market capitalization subject to the following capping requirements imposed at each reconstitution:
1. Determine the uncapped market capitalization weight of each constituent with pricing determined by the applicable Settlement Reference Rates.
2. If the weight of the largest uncapped constituent exceeds 5%, reduce its weight to 5% and redistribute the excess weight to all uncapped constituents in proportion to their market capitalization.
3. Repeat the previous step until all constituents’ weights do not exceed 5%.

Weighting Adjustment Factors are determined on the Weighting Reference Date [see Index Maintenance below] to achieve the weights calculated in the process described above, locking in the circulating supply values used to calculate market capitalization and fixing the constituent “portfolio” in advance of the Effective Date of the reconstitution. As such, constituent weights as of the Effective Date will drift with constituent price movements between the Weighting Reference Date and the Effective Date.

## Index Calculation
CoinDesk 80 is calculated in real time using the applicable Reference Rates for underlying constituents.

### Constituent Pricing
Constituent prices are calculated using CCData Blended Prices (“Reference Rates”) that incorporate fiat and converted stablecoin pairs from a selection of centralized digital asset exchanges, removing “Excluded Exchanges” as defined in the Policy Methodology.

CCData Blended Prices VWAP (“Settlement Reference Rates”) are used on the Weighting Reference Date to calculate constituents weights [see Constituent Weighting], to calculate Index Settlement Values [see Index Settlement Calculation Formula] and on the Effective Date to calculate the Index Divisor [see Index Divisor Adjustment].

The methodology for these Reference Rates can be found here.

### Index Calculation Formula
The Index is calculated using the following formula:
$$
Index_t = \frac{\sum_{i=1}^{N} P_{i,t} \times S_i \times WAF_i}{Divisor}
$$
where:
-   $Index_t$ is the value of the Index at time t
-   $P_{i,t}$ is the price of constituent i at time t, as determined by its Reference Rate,
-   $S_i$ is the circulating supply of constituent i as of the Weighting Reference Date,
-   $WAF_i$ is the Weighting Adjustment Factor of constituent i, as of the Weighting Reference Date,
-   Divisor is the Index Divisor.

### Index Settlement Calculation Formula
A settlement value for the Index will be calculated daily, using prices determined by the applicable Settlement Reference Rates, using the following formula:
$$
Index_{SETT} = \frac{\sum_{i=1}^{N} P_{i,SETT} \times S_i \times WAF_i}{Divisor}
$$
where:
-   $Index_{SETT}$ is the settlement value of the Index,
-   $P_{i,SETT}$ is the price of constituent i as determined by its Settlement Reference Rate.

### Index Divisor Adjustment
The Index Divisor is recalculated on each reconstitution Effective Date and during any event which requires a change to the index constituents not driven solely by market price movements.
$$
Divisor_{NC} = Divisor_{PC} \times \frac{\sum_{i=1}^{N} P_{i,SETT} \times S_{NC} \times WAF_{NC}}{\sum_{i=1}^{N} P_{i,SETT} \times S_{PC} \times WAF_{PC}}
$$
where:
-   $P_{i,SETT}$ is the price of constituent i as of the Effective Date, or other date and time at which the Divisor Adjustment takes place, determined by its Settlement Reference Rate,
-   NC represents the respective values of the new index constituents following the application of all changes
-   PC represents the respective values of the prior index constituents. Note that the price used in the numerator and denominator for each constituent is based on the settlement reference rates as of the effective timestamp of the changes.

## Index Maintenance

### Index Reconstitution
The Index is reviewed and reconstituted on a quarterly basis based on the rules described above [see Index Construction]. Any index changes resulting from the quarterly review are announced two weeks prior to the Effective Date, at which time the changes are implemented. Settlement Reference Rates, as defined above [see Constituent Pricing] are used for implementation on the Effective date. Reconstitutions are scheduled so that the Effective Dates fall on the last business day² of January, April, July and October. Reconstitutions include four events, defined as follows:
1.  **Reconstitution Reference Date.** Snapshot date for data used to select Index constituents. This falls two business days before the Announcement Date.
2.  **Announcement Date.** The date on which changes to Index constituents are announced. This falls four weeks before the Effective Date, or the closest following business day.
3.  **Weighting Reference Date.** The date on which the Index weights and Weighting Adjustment Factors are calculated, as defined above [see Index Construction]. This falls seven calendar days before the Effective Date, or the closest following business day.
4.  **Effective Date.** 4 p.m. Eastern Time on the date on which the reconstitution becomes effective.

### Table 2: Reconstitution Calendar Example
| Activity | Timing | Example |
|---|---|---|
| Reconstitution Reference Date | 2 business days prior to the Announcement Date | Dec 31, 2024 |
| Announcement Date | 4 weeks prior to the Effective Date, or if not a business day, the following business day | Jan 3, 2025 |
| Weighting Reference Date | 7 calendar days prior to the Effective Date, or, if not a business day, the following business day | Jan 24, 2025 |
| Effective Date | 4 p.m. Eastern Time on the final business day of January, April, July, and October | Jan 31, 2025 |

### Index Changes Between Reconstitutions
In addition to the quarterly process, constituents are monitored for potential anomalies and trading disruptions. Out-of-review monitoring, which would require an index modification, only applies in extraordinary circumstances. Incident types that would require one or more index modifications are outlined in the Policy Methodology.

#### Additions
There will be no additions to the index between reconstitutions.

#### Deletions
If a constituent is removed from The Index outside of the scheduled reconstitution process it will not be replaced and, therefore, the constituent count may drop below the target number. The weight of the constituent being removed will be redistributed proportionally to all remaining constituents as of the effective date of removal. No recapping will be performed. The impacted constituent will be considered for inclusion at future reconstitutions if it meets the criteria described above.

## Data Distribution
Index values are calculated 24x7 and are available publicly at coindesk.com and are also available to subscribers via REST and WebSocket APIs.

## Index Governance
Pursuant to CDI’s arrangement with its affiliate CCData to perform administration and calculation services, the Indices are subject to CCData’s governance and oversight functions. For more details on CCData, see here. These provisions override the governance and oversight provisions in the Policy methodology.

## Appendix 1: Data sources
This section describes data sources used to maintain, reconstitute, and calculate the Indices since the initial base date. If data are not available for any reason from the sources described in this appendix, other data sources may be used.

**Reconstitution data**
-   Market capitalization, snapshot pricing and circulating supply data are sourced from CCData at midnight UTC on the Reference Date.
-   Volume data for liquidity analysis is sourced from CCData each day of the defined lookback period.

Volume, pricing, classifications and reference data used for reconstitutions are reviewed by CoinDesk Indices analysts for accuracy and reliability. Based on these reviews, CoinDesk Indices reserves the right to update reconstitution data.

**Pricing Data**
Pricing for constituents used to calculate the index is sourced from underlying exchanges and trading venues.

## Appendix 2: Methodology Changes
The table below is a summary of modifications to this Methodology.

| Effective Date | Prior Treatment | Updated Treatment | Material Change |
|---|---|---|---|
| Dec 11, 2024 | Reconstitutions implemented at 4 p.m. Eastern Time on the 2nd business day of Jan, Apr, Jul and Oct. | Reconstitutions implemented at 4 p.m. Eastern Time on the last business day of Jan, Apr, Jul and Oct. | No (pre-launch, applies to historical series) |
| Nov 27, 2024 | No defined exclusions for eligible exchanges for the calculation of Reference Rates. | “Excluded Exchanges” as defined in the Policy Methodology are removed from the calculation of Reference Rates. | No (pre-launch, applies to historical series) |
