# Unchained Podcast: Jeff Park Says the 60/40 Portfolio May Be Dead. Here’s His Radical Fix

host: Laura Shin
guest: Jeff Park

**Laura:** Hi everyone, welcome to Unchained, your no-hype resource for all things crypto. I'm your host Laura Shin. Every episode we're featuring quotes from listeners on the show. Today we have one from John H on X responding to our recent episode on crypto treasury companies with Panta Capital's Cosmo Gian. John says crypto treasury companies are not everywhere. There are lots of sizable Bitcoin treasury companies and more coming, tapping debt/equity markets to buy nonsense crypto tokens not named Bitcoin will not catch on in any meaningful way.

If you want your comment featured, write a review of the podcast overall or leave a comment on our video on YouTube or X. This is the June 3rd, 2025 episode of Unchained.

One early Bitcoiner sold 30,000 BTC too soon, missing out on over a billion dollars. Don't want to make the same mistake with Zapo Bank? Eligible members can get instant cash without selling their Bitcoin. Check out zapo.com/unchained for more.

Crypto moves fast. It's why Bitwise launched the weekly CIO memo, a jargon-free summary of what's moving crypto markets written by one of the best in the business, CIO Matt Hogan. Get up to speed in 5 minutes or less. Check it out at bitwiseinvestments.com/cio memo.

Carefully consider the extreme risks associated with crypto before investing. Today's guest is Jeff Park, head of alpha strategies at Bitwise. Welcome Jeff.

**Jeff:** Hello Laura, how's it going?

**Laura:** Really good, super excited to have you. Your posts on crypto Twitter reflect a background that makes you very much the man of the moment. Your insights from your experience both in the traditional and crypto markets blend together in a unique way that I think generates a lot of interest in your social media posts. But before we get into crypto, I want to take everybody all the way back. You started your career at the height of the 2008 financial crisis. Tell me about that. What did you experience? What did you learn? How does it shape your investment and trading mindset today?

## How entering the workforce in 2008 pushed Jeff to question everything, even the dollar

**Jeff:** Yeah, so I think it shapes everything Laura that I've ever known in the industry as I've grown alongside both Wall Street and crypto. I think for me the number one thing I took away is truly that nothing you ever thought you knew can always be something you can build foundations on, because the world is ever so dynamic. 

You know, I graduate from Stanford with a lot of enthusiasm, a lot of optimism, a lot of hope for all the great things that you're told at school you're going to accomplish some amazing things. And you know, training on the trading floor itself can be a little bit brutal as people who have experienced it. It's an apprenticeship model - people come in, they get hazed, you go through the ringer of trying to prove yourself and get your own book eventually and start generating P&L and become a market maker eventually to then have your own principal book, etc.

But for me the journey was fairly abrupt because, as you've called out, two months into the start, the financial crisis started unfolding. And so for me it was probably the best thing that ever happened to me in hindsight because I learned so much. And people do say you don't really learn anything until you experience chaos and volatility when everything breaks apart, because that's when you know things get real. And I do think that is true.

So there are a few things I took away. Which is one, the world is extremely unstable. The financial foundation that we're told on, which is the basic foundation of what the risk-free rate in itself could mean to me, was fundamentally challenged when I started my career with a global financial crisis. So that always has anchored a little bit of a bias for me to imagine what the other parallel universe of a financial system could look like if that ever were to emerge.

And so there was a part of me that I think saw the birth of Bitcoin as an optionality, perhaps a little bit before other people, just because I had experienced the pain of the system in otherwise that Bitcoin could represent an opt-out for.

And then the second thing I would say I learned is the world is actually not that black and white. It's actually very path dependent. So when you see the bailout, the TARP programs, Paulson emerging into solving the crisis at the moment, you realize that there's no textbook on how to navigate financial crisis. It's actually a very human endeavor. There's a lot of technocrats that get involved and they try to fix human problems with human solutions. And in that world, everything is probabilistic. There's actually a range and a full spectrum of outcome that needs to be analyzed, digested and understood for you to make an optimal bet on where you think your investment portfolio should be, because it's actually not deterministic at all that something should be X and something should be Y. It really depends on the path dependency as to these events realizing.

And so that's the other thing that I really feel like I took away. I was always a bit of a probabilistic thinker just because of my quantitative leanings and wanting to understand probability models. But I think having lived through the financial crisis, you really get to appreciate that even more than ever. And I think actually nowadays it's more relevant because of the way that the financial markets has become so hyper-financialized for even retail investors to be mindful of what the machine of our capital market has become that frankly it wasn't when I started even my own career two decades ago.

**Laura:** Yeah, I think what's interesting is like you said that because you started at that time, that you know, it kind of made you more open to Bitcoin. But you know, the fact of the matter is that Bitcoin got started right around then. And so a lot of other financial professionals should have either maybe had the same realization or, you know, the ones who lived through that experience like they, you know, could have used that also to inform their views. But as we all know, there are some very experienced and in fact esteemed people in TradFi who just did not see Bitcoin for a long time until very recently. But how did you first hear about it? When was that? And you know, what were your thoughts when you first came across it?

**Jeff:** Yep, so I learned about it pretty early on the trading floor. It was probably around 2010 or so. And the reason was, and you'll find this commonality, is that there were a lot of traders who also play poker. And back in the early 2010s, using Bitcoin as a way to settle your winnings amongst your peers and friends under the guise of otherwise what could sometimes be perceived as unscrupulous behavior, that is the world of betting, Bitcoin was prominent. It was fairly prominent. So I have a lot of friends who actually use Bitcoin as a way to just transfer money in ways to of course sell it back to dollars, not actually store value in Bitcoin, but it was a conduit for payment.

**Laura:** Wait, for like whoever lost would have to pay the winner in Bitcoin?

**Jeff:** Yeah, yeah, exactly. And so it was actually kind of - you know, a lot of things in crypto starts with a little bit of this grayness as to its use cases. You know, this is one in which I think there was some purpose for wanting to transfer winnings and losses.

**Laura:** And wait, I just need to understand. In 2010, like what were you using? Wallets? Like what was the interface for sending the money and receiving it?

**Jeff:** Yeah, I mean it was basically all the things that you would have found to be problematic, like the ability to leverage Mount Gox and the world. And actually that's why the alpha at the time was really just holding on to your Bitcoin. No one really held on to it, right? It was actually you go on exchanges and try to get dollars out of it and try to make sure you don't have counterparty risk and actually custody risk.

So what I'm trying to hint here is actually my discovery of it wasn't really a store of value story. It was first actually a conduit of a payment story. And then it was only in 2013 for me personally that I started to really imagine the possibility of its store of value story. And that's also when Coinbase finally came online in the United States where you actually had a reputable Y Combinator-backed startup that you presumably thought was most trustworthy and you could imagine therefore storing value without the risks that you're highlighting, that I first then imagined Bitcoin as a store of value construct in 2013.

**Laura:** And wait, and just to understand, to use Mount Gox, were you doing that, like, wire transfer to Mount Gox? Was that how you got the money over there? Or like, do you remember?

**Jeff:** So I did not participate in... yeah, all I'm saying is that I have friends who were participating in using that, that helped me discover it. And it wasn't until years later that I would take it a little bit more seriously.

**Laura:** And then in 2013 when you took it more seriously, was it that fall period when it passed $1,000 for the first time or was it even before then?

**Jeff:** No, it was probably around then. It was probably late summer, early fall, kind of on its way to the peaks into the winter.

**Laura:** Yeah, okay. Oh, so interesting. So then you obviously were following it for a while, and then at a certain point you came to this moment where you decided to work in Bitcoin and crypto. So tell us like what brought you there and then why at that point you decided to choose Bitwise as your entry point?

**Jeff:** Yeah, sure. So Laura, I think you're absolutely right. There's a little bit of what I would call like a lost generation almost of my cohort of professionals who were caught in between - caught in between growing their career in the way that they've known in the traditional rails of Wall Street. You know, before I joined Bitwise, I had a career in the hedge fund industry for over 10 years where I was a partner there. And things can get comfortable and you know what you know, and life is at a stage where you're looking for security, you're building your family, and you know what you know, right?

But if you actually start your career earlier, if you're like a Gen Z, then you don't have those comfort and you don't have those handcuffs if you will, and you can accelerate your journey into crypto right away. So I think that's why at some level there is a little bit of a dearth of my cohort in this industry because they're caught between and they're paying attention because they know it's interesting, they know it's real, but many don't have the conviction to really go all in.

I think now with the regulatory clarity and the political climate having improved to a level where it is being sponsored, you might see more of this traction. But I'm proud to say that I've been able to make that jump at Bitwise about almost four years ago now, because to me it was very clear at that moment in time that this would be the case in the future - that we will be actually upon this journey with folks like you and I.

And I think what I came to realize is that this is all I was thinking about even at my prior job. So you know, I invested in multi-strat equities and credit special situations event-driven investing. I love that business. I've learned everything I can ever learn about that business. And you start to realize the itch is crypto. So 2017 is when I first professionally began this journey and I contacted my friend through my alma mater network. Hey, I want to invest in crypto professionally for my firm. Who should I talk to to level up? And I was very fortunate at the time to be then introduced to a gentleman you would know, Avichal Garg, who is also a Stanford alma mater, and he was actually my first mentor almost, if you will, in kind of...

**Laura:** Yeah, he's from Electric Capital, by the way, for people.

**Jeff:** That's right, yeah, that's right. And maybe perhaps as you might then connect, Avichal Garg and Electric Capital is a seed investor of Bitwise and has been supportive of our journey ever since with our founding team. And so I think at the time, even though I had followed the crypto journey vicariously, I've known the Bitwise name and brand, it wouldn't be until later that I felt that the opportunity for my human capital to actually be useful and contribute, because there was a period in time where crypto was so novel and so technology-driven in ways that the financialization would yet still have to wait.

And that's why you saw the birth of DeFi and you had to see the birth of things like Aave and Compound and almost imagine that coming to Wall Street. But it wouldn't be so obvious when that would happen. And I think a part of me was waiting on the sideline to see for the moment of that inflection. And you know, maybe I jumped ahead a little bit too early, but you know, at some point the reality is you got to start committing, building the relationships, spread your human capital. In the end, that's what all industry is about. And you got to be early.

And so I think for Bitwise, for me, it represented to me the best franchise in crypto asset management at the time that is singularly focused on bringing the ethos of crypto in a very professional way with a fiduciary mindset at the top and being singularly focused on asset management. You know, there are a lot of companies that were doing asset management as a side thing while they're running an exchange and running a merchant banking business or investing on their balance sheet and doing whatever. And that's okay. But I really love the idea that Bitwise was singularly focused on serving clients to get access to crypto in ways that it felt was still early at that time when you didn't even have the Bitcoin ETF. And Bitwise, of course, was the filer who would win that by having filed not just one, not just two, but three applications in its journey to get to that point.

**Laura:** Yeah, yeah, I remember kind of like the very early days of Bitwise. Naval Ravikant reached out to me and said, "Hey, you know, I'm investing in this company," and I met Hunter at that time. And it's just so funny because, you know, he and Hong, they were so young at the time. Hopefully Hunter won't be offended by me saying that. And I was kind of like, "Okay, this is interesting. Like fresh out of college and they're launching this." But you know, they clearly have found this niche that they're the leaders in, you know, this kind of intersection of TradFi and crypto. So, you know, good choice. Explain what it is that you do at Bitwise.

## Jeff's role as head of alpha strategies at Bitwise

**Jeff:** Yeah, so I lead all the investment leadership in alpha-centric and alpha-focused strategies on the Bitwise platform. So the goal and vision at the firm is to build a broad range and suite of capabilities to offer investors that are seeking different types of opportunities. So as you know, we have an index fund, we have indexed strategies to bring different factors in the crypto world to give investors exposure to like the Bitcoin Standard Corporations ETF that launched recently this year. Very thematic and popular with Bitcoin treasuries being at the forefront of a lot of narratives today.

**Laura:** Hot on the trend.

**Jeff:** Hot on the trend, indeed. And I think here to stay. You of course know we have spot ETFs that we're trying to bring to market in addition to Bitcoin and Ethereum as we have it today. And that's all great. The things that I focus on is really more towards, well, on top of that, what other kinds of opportunities are there that is more geared towards alpha?

So we have a variety of strategies. We offer one is a multi-strategy format franchise where we think about market-neutral opportunities to long bias liquid venture opportunities, actually some strategies that deal with just Bitcoin-centric securities like corporate bonds and equities and preferred that has now proliferated across the universe as trading strategies. And then I also help manage Bitcoin investors' access to yield.

So there are some Bitcoin investors that are out there who are sitting on it kind of like gold under the mattress, and they don't realize that actually if you put just a little bit of your Bitcoin to some work, you can in fact earn a pretty decent yield on it. And depending on of course your own risk tolerance, that could be as low as 2% or as high as double digits. And so we have an advisory business in which I help as an investment manager to help investors access Bitcoin yield, which I think has also become extremely thematic.

And then of course, lastly, you may have seen we launched several options trading ETFs where we are volatility harvesting what I think are the most volatile stocks today in the stock market - MicroStrategy, Coinbase, Marathon Digital - more to come. And this is actually to offer a different kind of income stream for investors who want to bet on not just the price of these crypto securities, but the opportunity to earn yield off of the volatility that you can harvest along the journey. So those ETFs have been also really popular and very well-received. We're about a month and a half into the journey of the launch, and the reception has been great. So there's a lot going on at Bitwise.

**Laura:** And out of curiosity, for the yield on Bitcoin itself, what are some of the top strategies you're using there?

**Jeff:** Sure, so we basically look at the world in three segments. One is on the very conservative side, the lending model. So if you're able to lend your Bitcoin to trusted counterparties in ways that are operationally rigorously tested, there are opportunities to pick up some incremental yield. And this is going back to a little bit of the comp being if you were to then have the Bitcoin ETF and participated, for instance, in the borrow market. So that is one version.

**Laura:** And wait, I'm sorry, so you're saying that people are borrowing against their Bitcoin ETFs or Bitcoin itself?

**Jeff:** So if you're able to lend your Bitcoin to certain counterparties, they're willing to pay a yield for those borrow relationships. That's sort of like a lending type of thing.

**Laura:** Yeah, exactly.

**Jeff:** Yeah, and your traditional prime brokerages and market makers will have capacity for wanting to have inventory for different times of the market environment where they're willing to pay a certain floating rate for it.

**Laura:** Okay, and I wasn't aware people could borrow against their Bitcoin ETFs, but that's also happening?

**Jeff:** That is in the works in the ways that we're constantly in dialogue to provide some capital efficiency for the Bitcoin ETFs. But the ETFs, because it participates in your regular margin model, depending on the brokers you're willing to work with, there are people who are able to access it.

**Laura:** Huh, okay, that's that's interesting. All right, well, we've spent a long time on your background, which I did want to get on the show. But let's now talk about your radical portfolio theory, which is why I wanted to have you. This is the theory in which you state that the traditional 60/40 portfolio model of investing is dead. So explain why you think that.

## Why the classic 60/40 portfolio may be dead

**Jeff:** Yeah, so I think man, it's actually now become I think conventional for people to pick on 60/40 as being dead. So maybe it's not so novel anymore. But I think the reality is that a lot of the foundational understandings of the benefits of equities and bonds being diversifiers are being challenged today. And I would say one key moment of that reflection was actually just watching the US sovereign debt get downgraded a few weeks ago as to imagining what that means when the entirety of the financial foundation built off this notion that treasuries are risk-free rates are being challenged and rewritten.

And so what is going on? I think at a broad level, there's really three things. One is the whole idea of 60/40 is because people assume that equities as part of the investment philosophy represents growth, right? Everyone invests in equities because they think there's an earnings power here which represents growth. And that growth coming from real true productivity gains, whether it's actual revenue growth or operating margin improvements or even like corporate financial engineering or share buybacks and whatever. Like there's something about equities that reflects growth.

But the reality is the growth model has been challenged for a very long time. I would say really since the financial crisis, which is that it's hard to find real growth. And because of that, there is a lot of other dynamics at play that distort people's understanding of what that growth is. So take, for example, the classic definition of GDP, right? GDP includes consumption and investments and then there's the capital letter G, government expenditures, plus net exports, right? How much you export against your imports.

And what you see is that GDP is over time becoming really moved by what I just refer to as the capital G. And then you realize, wait, if the government spending is driving growth, where is that government spending coming from and how is that funded? And so you have to really go back to your econ 101 textbooks and really just re-imagine like what is it that people told me what growth represents and what is it actually today.

And everyone would have told you like in a world of a population decline where there's actually no more growth coming from the population, like the whole model of capitalism itself might actually fundamentally turn upside down, right? So this is the moment where we actually have a lot of these entering the political climate and social dialogues where people are fundamentally asking like, what is growth? And that's really important.

The second assumption that we take for granted is that treasuries are safe, and that's the ultimate social covenant that we have been told that allows you to save in US treasuries as if you think that is the very basic minimum that you should be paid as a way to represent stability. And that's where the risk-free rate of course comes from. But I think what you're now seeing is that in fact it is not very stable. You've seen now the 10-year and the 30-year behave very volatilely over periods of time where there can be funding gaps and liquidity shortages that create all kinds of distortions.

You can see it in the MOVE index where it is more volatile and episodically chaotic more frequently than historically it ever has been. And you realize that actually treasuries are not safe. Perhaps they're actually - there's something about the mark-to-market of treasuries where it looks safe until it doesn't. And then it can get very violent because there's so much liquidity in the system that actually can move even the marginal price of these treasuries, especially as the makeup of the US yield curve is changing. And that's another conversation point we can touch upon later. But the US funding model has also changed in the last, I would say, four years, especially under Janet Yellen's leadership as to where the US is accessing most of its cost of funding.

And the last thing that I think we touched upon already that we have to understand why 60/40 is breaking is because that means the very definition of US sovereign creditworthiness is falling apart. And 60/40 does not work if that breaks, because if US sovereign is not risk-free, the US's ability to repay its debt is then being challenged, and everything falls apart. Everything. And that is why it's really important for all of us to re-imagine, hey, in this world of such craziness where the rules of modern finance is potentially being rewritten, what alternatives are there that you should consider in your portfolio that might look a little radical today? But maybe in the future will be so obvious that it is in fact not that radical at all.

And that's the journey that I wanted my friends and my colleagues and my investors to experience, because to get to that conclusion of what the radical portfolio theory is, it's actually not an economic journey. It's a social journey. We must understand what is happening at the fabric of our society to imagine where people's interests are aligning to then put their money to work that represents their values, their virtues. And you want to be at the forefront of that movement. And that's essentially what the radical portfolio manifesto and the theory is all about.

**Laura:** And out of curiosity, because you talk about how the creditworthiness of the US is like this assumption on which the model lies and how that's breaking down, since I think the first downgrade happened in like 2011, has the 60/40 model actually not performed well? Like between 2011 to 2025, like are we already seeing it in the performance compared to years prior? Or are you saying that you think we're going to a world where it will perform less well?

**Jeff:** Yeah, I think there are general moments that you've observed now where that correlation decouples in ways that no one expected. So I think that's the key insight. 60/40 in general has performed okay, right? I would say it was okay in the sense that it is generally positive and it is generally a little bit better than inflation on a long-run rate if you were to look at how 60/40 performed over 10 years.

But the problem is that there are moments when it underperforms exactly when it's supposed to perform. And that's usually the kind of wake-up call as to trying to understand why this actually then might be fundamentally challenged. You know, even this year, 60/40 is probably up like single digit, so it's actually going to still probably outpace inflation. But the problem you're seeing is that they're behaving in ways where they're correlated. That's the problem.

The correlation - if equities and bonds, if they sustain themselves for too long, defies the entire point of 60/40, which is actually I think why a lot of people are now just saying forget 60/40, just go long equities, because actually equities is the most capital-efficient way to play the same trade. And the same trade here being that there's way too much liquidity and this capital flow that is affecting these price movements are not really fundamentally driven, but they're driven by macro factors, corporate flows, sovereign flows.

These central banks have gotten so big and now central banks own equities. So how are they trading their equities versus their credit? The whole system has seems to be getting aligned and whereas the flows don't look that different, right? And that is the problem, because once the investor bases are not differentiated enough, well, you're basically in the same trade pretending it's not the same trade.

For instance, when Japan is long US equities as part of their funding model that they're funding through their own debt, it's the same circular trade. It's the same global carry that exists as a leveraged system in which the unwind of that flows will basically correlate. And I think that's what you're seeing when these moments where US Treasury rates blow out and then you see equities underperform. It is not because one represents security and safety and one represents growth. No, it's because maybe China actually just has to dump all their US treasuries to basically sustain their own growth model, which in fact impacts the US's growth model. And the whole thing is circular.

And so the thing we have to understand is the financial system is a lot more integrated than people think. And I think there maybe was a moment when it wasn't like that, when globalization wasn't so dominating as a force where it's hard to know if the market causes the economy's recession or the economy causes a market's recession. But there's something here where that aspect becomes really hard to read.

And so even when we talk about, hey, is there a need for a recession today that President Trump needs to create such that we could get Powell to cut rates such that we could actually bring abundance of liquidity to then bring markets up? That's a conversation no one would have had these conversations 20 years ago, where you think about purposely creating recessionary dynamics to actually engage in financial warfare. But that's now become normalized, right? This is actually normalized since GFC, since the European bailout. And this is what the capitalist system of modern financial warfare kind of now looks like. And that's why I think 60/40 has to be challenged, because it's actually 100% of the same thing, which is you're long global carry.

And if you understand that, you need to then think about assets that are actually outside of global carry - things that are actually directly uncorrelated, maybe even reciprocal to the global carry theme that helps you bring true diversification to your portfolio and gives you a fighting chance to actually preserve wealth when the sovereign flows may be so overwhelming.

**Laura:** Okay, so I'm not totally sure I understand this, because probably most listeners know this is not my wheelhouse. But I'm going to try to explain it. You tell me if I understand this right. So what you're saying is like the world is so global now that if everybody is using the same model and you are part of the herd, then you're not diversified or something? Is that kind of like the really short, condensed version of it?

**Jeff:** Yeah, that's essentially right. And I think the additional lever I would dial in here is that there's a lot of incestuous relationships almost between how these parties are interacting with each other. And so the fact that the dollar is in itself a little bit of a tricky thing to underwrite because of what is commonly known as the Triffin dilemma is really at the core of some of these problems. It's just manifesting itself to a level now where everyone's leverage is so high that people are running out of options.

And you know, the whole idea of leverage ultimately worked because people thought we were going to grow. That really, you can pull forward future spending by borrowing because you really thought you could grow into it - that there will be such prosperity and gains that you actually were able to pay it back. And I think what you're seeing is it's not happening, and the system is frustrated. And it's because of this malfunction that we're seeing so much social tension, I would almost even argue at a global level. But it's because we truly don't have growth the way that people were religious about it post-Bretton Woods 1970s plus.

The way of Benjamin Graham's intelligent investing is literally not how people invest anymore because it's not the thing that drives markets. People buy index exposure to the S&P not because they care about the underlying 500 companies, but because the indexed flows of equities represents inflation hedging in ways that are serving a purpose that almost you would imagine was not the purpose of equities. But actually equities is becoming correlated to Bitcoin, I think in my opinion, not because Bitcoin is being correlated to equities, but because equities is also trying to become an inflation hedge for the system, for people to find growth - the fastest horse to outpace inflation when the world doesn't have any ability to do so. So Bitcoin represents one version of it, and I think equities is becoming a representation of that belief system.

**Laura:** All right, so in a moment we're going to talk more about that and the Triffin dilemma which Jeff raised earlier, but first a quick word from the sponsors who make the show possible.

[Sponsor segments]

**Laura:** We have more comments from you responding to our recent episode on crypto treasury companies. On X, biscuit Web3 writes: "This whole SPAC/reverse merger wave feels like the new institutional hype cycle." And Martin Krung says: "This has little value for the industry. Prices go up, yes, but it's close to worthless. I think it'll blow up at some point." Let us know what's on your mind, because we read every comment. You might hear it in a future episode. Write a review or leave a comment on an episode on YouTube or X.

Back to my conversation with Jeff. So you briefly alluded to the Triffin dilemma, which plays a role in your theory about this kind of being an inflection point for the US and the global economy. So explain what the Triffin dilemma is and how this also plays into your radical portfolio theory.

## How crypto fits into the new financial world

**Jeff:** Sure, so the Triffin dilemma ultimately centers on the uncomfortable duality of the role of the dollar, which is that the dollar serves both as the medium of exchange and savings and consumption for its nationals - us Americans who live on it and therefore have our own economy that is managed by the Federal Reserve as to promoting growth and inflation and employment in the ways that is one part of the system. But the other thing the dollar does is actually the US's greatest financial export. I might even say it's the greatest export period.

And so because of that, there's other people that are non-Americans who really need dollars for their own purposes. And their purposes may look different than our purposes as Americans who are thinking about our own cost of capital in our economy of a closed-end system. And so what you're seeing is because the dollar is used by foreigners as much as our domestics, there's a little bit of a competing tension as to serving one constituent might actually undermine the other constituent.

For instance, we as Americans may generally prefer a strong dollar and there may be a case where foreigners might prefer a weaker dollar or vice versa. And it has to do with just how much of the capital account and deficit works for different trading counterparties into whether there's a surplus or a deficit and how they're managing their FX reserves and flows.

So these dynamics create this uncomfortable tension where the US has to manage both of these interests, recognizing they can't really satisfy both. And because the dollar is the world's reserve currency, their artificial demand for dollar is a lot higher than what it normally would otherwise find itself to be the market clearing price. Hence the dollar is generally fairly strong, and that strong dollar in fact weakens the US export economy in ways that makes it challenging to compete at a global level.

And that is essentially then why you have countries that actually do have these trade surpluses where the US gets to enjoy a capital account surplus, though we of course then have a trade deficit. So this whole financial system that is enacted by the rule of the dollar is in itself the challenge of managing growth for Americans versus growth of our creditors. I think that's the best way to put it. And the competing tension that the dollar then experiences, I think at the core it's important to understand this for the radical portfolio because everything we know about investing is based on the belief of the dollar.

And the tension here fundamentally undermines that the dollar may not continue to serve its role in the ways that the tensions could break unless there was a great re-imagining or reinvigoration of what the dollar could be. And I think there's a role for crypto and Bitcoin specifically to potentially play a role in that, because you have to remember the dollar being basically backed by the creditworthiness of the words of the US government is a relatively still new phenomenon.

Most of modern financial history would have shown you that currencies worked with some asset-backed collateralization where there was a true mechanism to rebalance trade by having an account of unit that was more than just the words of a sovereign. And so if that is the case, you could imagine the dollar is reinvented in a different fashion where the direct implications I think would be part of what you're investing for in the radical portfolio.

**Laura:** So it sounds to me like basically because, you know, the dollar has this sort of dual role and, you know, parts of the world can be good for Americans but then those parts would then have an effect in the outer world that would kind of swing back and be bad for other kinds of Americans like, just you know, this part about like it makes it harder for businesses that export to compete on a global scale. I guess would be one example. So it almost sounds as if you're saying that the reason why Bitcoin or any crypto really could be a solution is just because it allows the US to kind of break free of this dilemma? Is that how you're - is that what you're saying?

**Jeff:** Yeah, yeah, essentially that's right because what I'm arguing at some level is that the US's enjoyment of our capital account surplus is directly at the cause of us having this trade deficit that needs to be rebalanced, right? And the trade deficit affects different constituents of our country differently as does the capital account surplus. One actually really favors asset inflation and one actually doesn't favor real manufacturing inflation, I might argue. And there has to be a little bit of a rebalancing between those two dynamics.

And if you were to do that, then it's almost obvious that US interest rates will have to go up, right? And if US interest rates go up, the general notion is that's very bad for our funding model because we don't get to enjoy the cheap leverage that we have historically thus far. But one way to counter that potentially is if you infuse some aspect of the US yield curve with something else besides US growth or US creditworthiness - with something hard, with something a little bit more unique and differentiated. Which is why I think people are interested about the ideas of these Bitcoin-backed bonds or incorporating Bitcoin in ways where it adds an element of reducing a risk premium to the funding model of the perceived creditworthiness of an entity.

So I think the end solution here being is that if we do want to decouple with China and decouple with this idea of the dollar not serving as the global reserve currency, we have to be prepared to accept a higher funding cost. If we don't want to accept a higher funding cost, then we have to reimagine what we might be able to put into those assets to then reduce it back. That's why I think stablecoins are super interesting. That's I think why there's a lot of questions as to how we might have to reimagine what stablecoins that are issued offshore could look like at the benefit of the United States's financial hegemony and actually imagine what price discrimination for that could look like for foreigners versus US savers. I think this is a little bit of like a Pandora's box that historically would not have been open in the past, but now it's becoming full-fledged conversations.

**Laura:** Okay, I know we haven't even gotten to the actual new radical 60/40 portfolio. But I did want to ask you because you said that you wanted to also chat about the US yield curve changing. So do you want to go into that and then we can talk about what actually makes up your proposed radical 60/40 portfolio?

## Why "time is liquid energy" and Bitcoin captures it best

**Jeff:** Yeah, I think the greatest myth that we've been told that for a whole generation is that somehow the money today represents this incredible abstract monetization that results from the manipulation of time. The entire point of a yield curve exists because there's this notion that spending today will help you grow into something in the future that you otherwise need to pull forward, which is really a manipulation of time.

And so everything we see into the global liquidity model where it would appear global liquidity is just going up every year and there's just new money coming from not just the United States but from China and the ECB and there's just an abundance of liquidity coming in - to me that represents one of the greatest sins for a generation that has yet to be able to action into productivity, which is their time is being stolen.

## The core of Jeff's radical portfolio theory

And so the genesis of wanting to reimagine what a radical portfolio could be is to then think about what is on the other side of time. You know, what makes time so abundant and what then is not very abundant that could actually be the counterbalance to then re-underwrite liquidity differently? And I think that's where my interest in energy comes in, because energy by definition is scarce. It is by definition something that has to be created with real work. It cannot just be printed out of thin air like the way financial liquidity can.

And energy in fact is actually on the other side of the thing that can be manipulated to define what liquidity means for the market. That's why I've coined this little saying that time is liquid energy. And the goal is to imagine other formats of investment asset classes that are energy leading first before it leads with the manipulation of time itself, which is the entire point of the yield curve's existence.

In some ways, this will sound very natural to you then why Bitcoin represents such a core ethos as to the radical portfolio, because the very existence of Bitcoin is backed by energy. This very notion that only energy is the thing you must spend to actually produce this thing that otherwise you couldn't, and therefore is extremely robust in valuing the scarcity value that directly contradicts the funding model of a fiat-based economy.

**Laura:** Huh, okay, this is so interesting like I guess what comes to mind is you know I could imagine another world where Bitcoin didn't exist but a lot of the same kind of trends that you're seeing were happening and that you would have these same conclusions about energy and time and you know what I mean? That part that you just said about how - what did you say? You said time is liquid energy? Is that what you said?

**Jeff:** That's correct.

**Laura:** That was super interesting to me. But anyway, point is all I'm trying to say is like it's just so fascinating that Bitcoin does happen to exist and does happen to kind of like fit into these phenomena that you're talking about in a way that you know offers this alternative. So now let's talk about your what you're proposing for your radical 60/40 portfolio. You know, you just - quick brush strokes is it's 60% compliance, 40% resistance so the audience can remember that. But go ahead and explain what that means.

**Jeff:** Sure, so this is where it gets a little bit political, but I do think it is the lens to appreciate what a new investment portfolio could look like in the future not just for the asset but the form factor and how you must own it. And so you're absolutely right. The broad-based words that I have chosen is 60% is compliance assets and 40% is resistance assets.

And so what I mean by this is actually everything you know about investing is all compliance generally, right? So 60/40 bonds and equities - that's 100% compliance because actually you're in the system and if the system goes under, you're going under. There's nothing that's going to save you there. So what defines the core attributes of that system? One, it's centralized, right? It's also generally fairly public, the kinds of things you can own there because it is built off of a fairly public ledger, I would say, in the sense that everyone trades bonds, equities and commodities in the exchanges that we know in the investment brokerages that we hold them in.

And they can be also then lastly be what I call surveiled for maximum state purposes, which is why actually so many of the ways billionaires invest nowadays is to think about not having as much surveillance, right? So when they buy things like sports franchises that are tax advantaged or they buy artwork and they store it in free ports, it's not just because they're valuable things. It's a way to actually opt out of a centralized ledger and hold assets away from the encumbrance of a potential system that could put a lien on it. And so you know, it has a little bit of what I call a maximalist state flavor in these compliance assets.

The 40% that is resistance assets are exactly the opposite. These are generally decentralized. You're not going to find a place to actually custody these things easily or trade these things easily or know how to access these things very easily. And that's also because they're generally private. There's not going to be a depository of an index that you can look up on Bloomberg and say "Hey, how did this basket of these things perform over a period of time?" You're not going to find it because it's actually fairly private.

And the third thing is by definition as a result it has a flavor of minimalist state intervention. These are things that the states don't really care about. It's not part of the financial system that they need a lot of surveillance on. Elizabeth Warren could care less that you and I might trade Pokemon cards. It's none of our business and it's not something that the US government should have an interest in. So there's a little bit of a minimalist state component into it as well.

Those are like the essence of how to think about these portfolio assets at the top level. And then the next thing you have to think about is the implementation, which is that there's a custody model for compliance assets and there's a custody model for resistance assets. And there are some that can exist in between. And this is where it gets a little bit grayer where it's up to the individual investor as to what they find value in to make that trade-off.

So for instance, gold I would say is clearly a resistance asset. It's been the world's most favorite resistance asset for all of human civilization, has the best track record in serving that purpose. But also you could buy the GLD ETF too if you wanted to get price exposure to gold. And so the GLD ETF in some ways is nonetheless a compliance wrapper and therefore it's a compliance asset. But if you have gold bars, right, the way that you might get it from your parents or your families passed down to you and you store it in your vault, well that's really held in that form specifically because you're trying to opt out of the system for the possibility that it's valuable especially when you need it for that purpose.

So a lot of gold bugs will say the GLD ETF is fine because you get financial access, but you're missing the whole point of why gold is valuable because the moment you'll need it, you're not going to get it in the ETF format the way you need it, which is you need to put it in a bag and run. So there are elements of the custody model that I think is really important, and every individual should just decide for themselves as to how extreme they want to take this practice because there's always going to be a grayness and a spectrum for people's relative trade-off for comfort and convenience as well.

But it's important nonetheless that people understand that trade-off when you choose to buy the Bitcoin ETF. You have to understand what that represents versus owning Bitcoin spot directly in a way that is representing a movement that still may not be aligned with the way that the compliance assets exist. You can buy the Bitcoin ETF. There's a lot of great reasons for you to do that. There's many financial benefits. But you still must acknowledge the custody model in itself is really unique for resistance asset and there's a premium for it.

**Laura:** And wait, so just to understand, the Bitcoin ETF would fall in which one - compliance asset or resistance?

**Jeff:** You know, so that's kind of the grayness of it all in a sense. The return stream I would say represents a resistance asset return stream because it's meant to be not part of the global carry system. So the price action of Bitcoin is still going to behave like a resistance asset. But the form factor of how you own it is not the same thing as the investment case. And so if the form factor is an ETF, then I would say that's a compliance implementation. And if you really wanted to go all the way, you would imagine just buying Bitcoin and cold custodying it directly, which is the representation of the radical resistance implementation.

But there's a lot of grayness to this, right? Because you know, in my opinion, one of the beautiful things that's happening with tokenization and the idea of bringing liquidity to some of these esoteric assets is to bring some financialization to the benefit of investors for achieving more liquidity that otherwise historically wouldn't have existed as a resistance asset. In a way, that's a good thing. But I would also argue the double-edged sword is that liquidity itself can be the problem.

So if you bring liquidity to these things, then it becomes a part of the system that you are trying to be out of, which then creates the problem. I think this is why so many Bitcoin investors that are Bitcoin maxis are so philosophically anti this idea. And a part of me understands it because the reason 60/40 is breaking is because the flows have gotten so correlated. If the flows get too correlated with Bitcoin because of the financialization that permits the same investors to access it, then you know, it's going to have the same problem in ways that it becomes a narrative in ways that the value that it represents may not be the actual financial experience based on those flows.

So this is the double-edged sword. If you really want amazing resistance assets, you almost don't want a lot of liquidity. And you almost also don't want a lot of liquidity because once you have a lot of liquidity, then Wall Street will put leverage on it. And the leverage itself is what is driving the returns of a lot of these assets. Where if an asset is good by its own, it should be able to outperform without a lot of leverage. And that in itself is a very valuable thing because now you're robust and you're outside of the credit system that tends to create these financial crises.

**Laura:** What you're describing there, it almost feels like it's a theory that could apply to any time when a system gets too entrenched and the assumptions that it's based on no longer apply. So it almost feels like this would be a model that would be used during whatever this transition phase is that we're in. And then you know, once that becomes dominant, then it may have less applicability. But then you know, whatever 50, 70, whatever how many years in the future, then it would become relevant again or something like that. Is that a way to think about it that this could even apply to future times when the global order or just whatever current order is shifting?

**Jeff:** Yes, exactly right. I think just as we thought about 60% compliance and 40% resistance, the ultimate fruition of those words manifests itself into the global carry system where 60% I would say are long global carry and 40% is short global carry. So the long global carry is the aspect that I was alluding to where these assets tend to have a lot of leverage. They're generally short volatility dynamics where things look like they're working until they don't, and then it breaks apart pretty fast.

And then the short global carry side of assets, there's just not a lot of leverage on it, but the asset's very volatile as a result. And so that is valuable because the premium, the monetary premium of owning the asset is coming from the underlying volatility of the actual thing, not because of the leverage that is creating the thing. And this goes back to originally like what is the whole point of investing and how we're imagining a yield curve?

And the point that I would make is that the 60% that is in the long global carry system, they're engaged in what we just talked about, which is liquidity transformation. It's just the abundance of liquidity that is being transformed in different ways with leverage. And the other side of the short global carry is you're involved in energy transformation. So these things are valuable inherently because energy is valuable, because inherently the human capital that must be expended as energy to discover these assets is valuable, otherwise it's because the resources that it takes in the natural world is valuable to create it that makes it useful. But the point of it is that asset pool is literally creating value by energy that is not by liquidity transformation. It's an energy transformation mechanism.

## What goes into the "resistance" asset bucket

**Laura:** So one thing that I'm very curious to know is when you were formulating this, did you go back and look at how previous dominant currencies or kind of like global world orders fell? Because, you know, like one of my favorite things is when people dismiss Bitcoin and say like it's not backed by the full faith and force of the US government or whatever. And I'm just like, yeah, and also we used to use seashells as our main form of transactions and like people, that was fully accepted for a long time. Like, like why do you think that, you know, whatever moment we're in is somehow better than any other? But anyway, point is the reason why I'm asking is just because I'm just wondering like is this the kind of thing where you've kind of looked back to see at previous times in history, like would this have also worked? Because like what I'm trying to get at also - so there's that and then the second thing that I'm wondering is just the way you're describing like the resistance portion, that's the - I don't even know what to call it, I don't want to call it basically in a way it is a bet. It is a bet because you were saying I see these signs of how all the assumptions that we currently have may not work out at some point in the near future, you know, whether that's the next year or the next 10 years or, you know, whatever it is. You are seeing signs that like the assumptions that everybody is basing their financial decisions on will not be largely applicable at some point relatively soon. So then you have this other universe of kind of non-correlated things that you're calling your resistance. But I guess I'm just wondering like for any random person like yes, I understand, okay, at this point in time we have Bitcoin or, you know, just other cryptos or, you know, whatever. But like how would you think kind of in the abstract about how to choose amongst the different possibilities? Like are there certain principles that you would apply? Is it literally just anything? Because, you know, I mean, this is an interesting debate. Like do you think it would be a good idea to include Pokemon cards in the resistance? Or no? But I guess you said that that's the compliance. I guess all I'm trying to say is like how would you take - like if you were just to come up with a set of principles for how to analyze whether or not something belongs in resistance, like what would that look like?

**Jeff:** It's a great question. And you know, just kind of riffing on what you said about people's general cynicism about Bitcoin's representation, you do have to study history a little bit because I think we would all be so surprised by how much of what we take for granted is actually still relatively new in ways that even our grandparents' generation would have said was not normal. So I came across this incredible statistic this past weekend, which was that 90% of Americans were self-employed during World War II. 90% of Americans had their own businesses. Now 10% of Americans really run their own businesses. And that happened basically within generations.

And that tells you something about the direction of where the world is going. It's going towards a model of centralization. It's going towards a model of a top-down version of control. It's actually not the way that it had been for most of American and most of human history. So the thing that I'm trying to enthuse here for everyone to just really, really, really consider is the things that are valuable are the things that you are probably getting least amount of exposure to because it's not widely available because they don't want you to have it widely available. And those are the things that can really be valuable in the future precisely because that's the hedge it's representing at almost like a metaphorical level.

And so the key point about energy I think is the thing that I will try to underwrite everyone's lens to appreciate the opportunity, because if it's valuable, it means you have to spend time on it and it has to be exhausted. It's valuable because of that purpose. And so anyone that tells you this thing is valuable because it's XYZ price - price does not represent value. Price is just something that people are transacting at a moment in time. And nowadays the joke goes around that everyone seems to know the price of everything and the value of nothing.

And the key here is that energy is at the underpinning of the resistance assets. So Bitcoin as we talked about is one, but the other vector that I consider people to put their time in is that your own human capital as a way to invest in the future is going to be more resistant proof than the things that the global carry system permits for you to achieve.

So I talk about professional gambling actually as a category that is incredibly productive and something that most people don't spend nearly enough time in trying to understand how it could be useful to you to build a diversified portfolio. And I don't mean professional gambling as to say like you should go play slot machines - like obviously slot machines doesn't have an edge and that's a problem. That's more of an addiction. But poker is an incredible game of skill, and if you're a great poker player, you're probably able to earn income off of that in ways that looks uncorrelated to whatever else is happening in the world anyway.

And there are certain elements of this that is becoming possible because of crypto now. I pay a lot of attention to the information markets that is now being permitted through the likes of Kalshi and Polymarket, where anyone and everyone can actually start applying some of their versions of human capital to make intelligent bets where they are in control of the odds because you are the source of that information edge, right?

Think about the sports betting business model where there's actually tons of alpha in sports betting because most of the markets that are being created cannot be priced accurately by the house themselves. So they actually do need to rely on several people to be the price setter. And the price setters with the informational advantage will always have a higher positive EV outcome in which they are actually making money off the house. Of course, the house quickly adjusts the market then volume comes in, so you can't make all the money without the house knowing. But the point is the house does not have the edge when it comes to very specific information.

You can almost apply this to be the most democratizing thing for any individual today that you can go and bet on an outcome of something that nobody knows about but you can have the edge. And there's something so incredibly useful there that I think is bringing power back to the people. And people might say that's gambling, but really the point I'm trying to make is the fine line between what is a casino that is Wall Street between the information markets that is Polymarket is becoming very thin. One happens to just give you the individual investor the edge if you're able to put time and resource and energy into actually perfecting an outcome.

So this is the aspect in which that energy that you have to invest in learning to do these things, which is your own human capital, becomes almost contradictory to anything that the compliance asset world will ever want you to think about building a diversified portfolio. No financial advisor is going to say, "Hey, 10% of your assets should actually be bets on Polymarket where you think that you might have the edge to drive a single-digit positive yield return." They're never going to say it. But that is the future in which I think you will have to entertain asset inflation being the thing to fight by participating in those kinds of markets.

And the cultural IP here is key because, you know, moving away from professional gambling, the other big category is cultural IP, which is that you have a brand, you have a voice, and you have a chance to actually do a lot of things in ways that bring income in ways that no financial investment advisor will ever tell you. But that cultural IP can be manifested into collectibles, right? So this idea of Pokemon cards as assets sounds really silly, but it is actually valuable to some people. And some people do pay millions of dollars for the rarest thing. And that's almost like an extension of why art is valuable. You know, why people collect things in general - because they're scarce and they're actually culture representations that are very valuable to humans.

And so culture by definition cannot be printed out of thin air. The value of culture exists because it is scarce. The moment it becomes so mainstream, it doesn't become valuable. And so this really speaks to the importance of then having, again, back to this idea of a short global carry asset where it's low leverage, it's got a lot of volatility, but it's the energy you expend on the culture you know and then building an asset pool off of it that can be valuable.

**Laura:** Wow, this is so fascinating. And by the way, nobody should take anything that we're saying here as investment advice.

**Jeff:** 100%.

**Laura:** But yeah, I guess what you're saying is - and I actually feel like this fits into the fact that, you know, everybody's predicting that AI is going to bring this kind of massive transformation and they don't necessarily in a positive way even to white collar jobs. And I guess, yeah, I feel like everything that you're saying kind of fits in not just, you know, what you were talking about before about these assumptions about the risk-free rate for bonds and how creditworthy the US dollar is or the US government is, but also just like, you know, this is a tension that we've been watching happen play out through the last whatever, like 15 or 20 years where things are getting more globalized. You know, I'm sure you probably spend more time interacting with people digitally in a digital world than you do in person, and I'm sure it's true for, you know, many people. Or even if it's not more, at least just as many.

Now with the AI thing, I feel like there's all these ways that we tend to think about our world or, you know, the different structures or institutions that - it's already changing. It's probably going to change even more. So what's just so fascinating is like some of the stuff that you were talking about, it's almost like you're advocating for kind of more self-reliance or like investing in yourself, your own knowledge, like using your own skill and wit to generate your income in a way that can't be taken away by the machines or, you know, whatever.

**Jeff:** Yeah, no, that's exactly right. And I think the trends are - it's a secular tailwind. I think about also just how hyperfinancialized Wall Street has become. And so many of the investing opportunities are blurring now the line between retail and institutional with a variety of these permanent capital vehicles that any investor can access with the human capital that they would need to then know how to do it properly.

But post-Obama and the crowdfunding act, you know, imagine like the lending marketplace that happened with the lending clubs of the world, right? This idea that we can lend money to each other and actually earn a yield without a bank intermediation. This concept of you becoming the person with enough research can find financial opportunities that otherwise would not be widely available is a fundamental trend.

And so this represents, at some level, the thing that I think most individuals in crypto already know, which is individuals have a lot more power for what they have that can be monetized. And the resistance assets ultimately manifests itself in the ability for you to do that.

Part of it is that, you know, when I was at my prior firm, I invested in a lot of strange, exotic, esoteric things. I invested in litigation financing. I invested in carbon credit futures fund trading strategies. I invested in all kinds of distressed opportunities that require true human capital to navigate. But the opportunity itself is very scarce because you don't have, of course, tons of ways to print distressed opportunities across a cycle. But all of these things to me represent the importance of the value being driven by the scarcity of it.

Litigation financing is such a great investment asset class because you're funding human capital to legal IP for an outcome which is not determined by the markets at all. It's just a lawsuit. And if you win the lawsuit, you get paid. And it's based on the facts and circumstances and how you fund that litigation that you get to participate in a return of capital that has no bearings on the price of the S&P or 10-year interest rate. That is literally legal IP. And because there's not that many cases and because there are not many good cases that can be underwritten, they're scarce. But if you can invest in legal opportunities, it is actually one of the best private credit asset classes that almost any institutional investor will be wishing they could scale into bigger sizes because it's true return. It's true productivity growth return.

And nowadays, you actually do have companies like Legalist that is bringing these opportunities to the public, right? You, Laura, and I could go on legalist.com and search the dockets and find the cases we like and actually sponsor the attorneys for some of the things that you think could be interesting. And you get to participate in now developing an income stream off of an asset that is historically not part of anyone's portfolio. But the endowments and the foundations and the institutional investors have already be doing it.

So I think the key point I'm trying to drive here is that the line between retail and institution is merging, is absolutely true. That the crowdfunding model has permitted a lot of access and opportunities for individuals. I think that's the direction that the SEC also has been promoting at some level when I see the kinds of products that are approved in the markets that I never thought would be approved 20 years ago - like a private credit ETF that Apollo has launched. All this means is that we as individual investors need to be more open-minded about finding the scarce assets like that and be ahead of the curve and invest ahead of that time.

**Laura:** Yeah, we wrote about that, the Apollo one, the private credit fund here, because they're taking this sort of looping strategy that it enables. But yeah, people should read that because, you know, it's not like all of this is a little bit messy right now, you know? It's not like every single thing will work out well. But, you know, Jeff is kind of opening our eyes to the fact that these are things that you should be thinking about.

I did want to also ask, so you mentioned that you had come to believe that, you know, if you could only own two assets for the radical 60/40 portfolio, that the 60% would be STRK, which is preferred MicroStrategy shares, and then 40% Bitcoin. So explain why those two and, you know, how they kind of encapsulate your 60/40 radical portfolio.

## Why Jeff is betting big on MicroStrategy's STRK and BTC

**Jeff:** Sure, so the ethos behind those two securities is to honor the intention of the original 60/40 portfolio, which is that you want some things that are less volatile to be paired with something that is volatile. And Bitcoin is, of course, very volatile. We know that. We know that's actually a feature, not a bug, and the thing that makes it so valuable in itself that we want it. So then the question is, what do you pair it with in a radical portfolio that you can access easily that is not as volatile but also perhaps participating in the same thematic movement of opting out of the compliance assets, opting out of traditional securities?

And I picked STRK because STRK, which is one of MicroStrategy's preferred equities that came online this year, offers true yield in a way that I think is complementary to a lot of Bitcoin investors. So again, it is not investment advice that you should go all in on two assets. But if you were to think about investing in two assets, I see a lot of crypto investors just diversifying across tickers where they're actually just underwriting the same risk. Like if you own MicroStrategy the stock and you own Bitcoin, they're kind of similar. And then if you own Coinbase on top or MetaPlanet on top, it's kind of similar. They're all Bitcoin or Bitcoin-centric lever beta types of exposures. And therefore, you're not really diversifying yourself even though maybe you feel it's diversified because day by day the price action looks a little bit different.

So you got to find something that's really kind of uncorrelated to that broader price action. And STRK, because it is a part of MicroStrategy's capital structure innovation where it pays a real coupon and a meaningful coupon, actually, in my opinion, that beats risk-free rates in the 10-year and the 30-year. And if you believe in Bitcoin in the perpetual time frame for which you believe it'll be the most important asset, you're getting paid today with a cash yield. And you also do get the chance to convert STRK into the common of MicroStrategy, which gives you a little bit more of an upside.

And so the goal of that view was to really enthuse the importance of diversification for retail investors. I worry sometimes that those who are not traditionally trained in portfolio theory don't totally understand what it means to push out the efficient frontier by adding diversified risks that can bring down your marginal risk contribution per asset. And STRK is the closest thing that I've seen that broadly retail investors can access because it is a shelf register preferred, which is, by the way, a historic thing - has never been done before - that you could get a fixed income-like experience that is still Bitcoin-backed and aligned with the radical mindset and actually does in fact diversify your portfolio.

So I think I showed the return so far of what that 60/40 would look like since the inception of STRK, and it's good. It's actually been up in the double digits. But more importantly, it's not about the gains. It's about the portfolio volatility. STRK has been very much less volatile than Bitcoin. So it is actually additive to somebody's portfolio construction in a way that's more diversified for being future-proof than going YOLO all in on Bitcoin only.

**Laura:** So Jeff, this has been such a fascinating discussion. I have absolutely loved every minute of it. And I actually have so many more questions that you and I just decided - I'm going to reveal something to the audience that we're going to do a part two. So I will reserve the rest of my questions because we're already at over an hour. But it has been so fun exploring your history and all about your thoughts on the radical portfolio theory. So thank you so much. And in the meantime, why don't you let people know where people can reach you and find out more about your work?

**Jeff:** Sure, the best place you can find me is on Twitter on X. My handle is @DCInvestor. It'll be fun to see you guys there.

**Laura:** It's been a pleasure having you on Unchained. Always. Heads up, everyone, stick around to hear more about this hot Bitcoin treasuries trend.